10.2307_973365	1958	"The spurt of educational programs for executives noted by Marshall Dimock in the Spring Review be-speaks not only the growing emphasis on in-service training and adult education of all types but also the relatively recent spread in the recognition that management is far different from expertness in a specialty and much more than a common-sense art. Attention to executive development has been associated with a rethinking of the role and skills of the successful executive and with growing emphasis on leadership as the proper stance for the administrator within the organization and his appropriate role in public policy development and community affairs. Here are described and analyzed five somewhat different educational programs for executives and potential executives, along with a survey of the reactions of participants to one of them. The programs differ in content-though the reader may well consider whether the difference is substantial. They differ too in important details relating to the learning process, e. g., length of the course, whether it takes the participant completely away from his desk, whether persons of differing or similar background are brought together."
10.2307_973883	1960	"Probably no major administrative technique has won so wide an interest and acceptance in a short time as has performance budgeting. Its advocates have foreseen such happy consequences as more rational legislative-executive relations, administrative decentralization without loss of responsibility, more sharply drawn alternatives for program selection, and a clearer picture of costs which can spot-light inefficiency and point out cheaper routes to stated goals. Here, the predictions about performance budgeting are examined alongside its achievements in Los Angeles, New York State, the U. S. Department of Agriculture, and Cincinnati."
10.2307_973870	1960	"Career administrators in the United States government and many states again are faced with the unknown of a new set of leaders. There is enough experience with political transitions, however, to reduce uncertainty and to suggest ways of strengthening the new administration at a time of great difficulty for it, when success or failure to grasp quickly the reins of government and master its machinery can affect the success of the new chief executive throughout his tenure. Here, a student of federal transitions and two participants in state transitions (who are also political scientists) explore the political, social, psychological and economic forces that have affected transfers of power. They turn our attention from the problem of maintaining continuity of government, which most often has been our focus, to the more resistant problem of achieving policy changes which the election appeared to mandate. Due to the publication schedule, all of the articles were written before the election."
10.2307_973856	1959	"Those seeking a fundamental understanding of public administration have recognized more and more that by comparing administrative systems of many countries, what is essential about government and bureaucracy can be more easily distinguished from what is incidental. This way of looking at public administration particularly points up the relationship of the administrator to the public and his role in the whole governmental process. Also, the results of different types of organization and operation can be examined. While the how of comparative research is still the main concern of scholars in this field, even these early efforts to wrestle the gigantic mass of material into related groupings can be a guide to the administrator seeking a deeper grasp of his job. Strange as other societies may seem, the contrasts as well as the similarities to our own systems and behavior help to polish the mirror for self-study."
10.2307_973208	1959	"Further on the city manager's role in policy development and community leadership, a manager (with 12 years experience as a manager in three small and medium sized cities and two years as assistant manager in two larger cities) urges that more politics be put into the council-manager plan, but without any withdrawal by the manager from his key responsibilities in developing and presenting policy. Many managers, he feels, do not sufficiently throw open the policy development process to the public, particularly in budgeting. These questions, of course, apply with little translation to high-level career executives in other units of government. Earlier articles on the same subject appeared in the Summer, 1958 and Spring, 1959 PAR."
10.2307_974059	1960	"University administration is like administration of other enterprises, John Corson assures us, in consisting of decision-making, programing, communication of program, control, and appraisal. But descriptions of what middle and top management of higher education face in undertaking these universal processes may sound highly unusual: for example, participative management in which the administrator is like a majority leader among near-equals-who have scant loyalty to the organization even while acting with deep loyalty to the organization's purposes, units that fight un-Parkinsonlike to avoid new jurisdictions, organizations which seldom have a clearly defined over-all statement of purpose and whose parts are connected geographically and on paper but scarcely by regular operating relationships. Yet before other public administrators dismiss this as science fiction so far as their work is concerned, they should recognize that some of the causes of university administration's differences are growing forces in their own organizations-for example, employee loyalty to a professional field in competition with loyalty to the organization, employees with so much expertness that outsiders are unable to understand them easily, and severe shortages of top flight specialist talent resulting in individual bargaining on pay among other effects. Also, some administrative approaches advocated generally-such as emphasis on leadership rather than authority and on wide participation in decision-making-are here displayed in extreme form, which can provide guidance to others on the same route. Administrators of other programs will find many familiar problems discussed here: for example, the persistent encroachment of procedural details and public relations demands on the executive's central job of defining purpose, and the need to find and prepare executives who can be both program philosophers and administrative experts. In addition, they may note in Algo Henderson's study that government and business executives occasionally are attracted to this administrative wonderland. Finally, to those who regard the dean's dilemma as mercifully irrelevant to them, one might ask why government is turning more to universities to perform its tasks. And one might also look here for clues to overcoming the persistent incompatibility in the increasing marriages of university and government in the holy bonds of research. The symposium was arranged and guided by James A. Perkins."
10.2307_974062	1960	"University administration is like administration of other enterprises, John Corson assures us, in consisting of decision-making, programing, communication of program, control, and appraisal. But descriptions of what middle and top management of higher education face in undertaking these universal processes may sound highly unusual: for example, participative management in which the administrator is like a majority leader among near-equals-who have scant loyalty to the organization even while acting with deep loyalty to the organization's purposes, units that fight un-Parkinsonlike to avoid new jurisdictions, organizations which seldom have a clearly defined over-all statement of purpose and whose parts are connected geographically and on paper but scarcely by regular operating relationships. Yet before other public administrators dismiss this as science fiction so far as their work is concerned, they should recognize that some of the causes of university administration's differences are growing forces in their own organizations-for example, employee loyalty to a professional field in competition with loyalty to the organization, employees with so much expertness that outsiders are unable to understand them easily, and severe shortages of top flight specialist talent resulting in individual bargaining on pay among other effects. Also, some administrative approaches advocated generally-such as emphasis on leadership rather than authority and on wide participation in decision-making-are here displayed in extreme form, which can provide guidance to others on the same route. Administrators of other programs will find many familiar problems discussed here: for example, the persistent encroachment of procedural details and public relations demands on the executive's central job of defining purpose, and the need to find and prepare executives who can be both program philosophers and administrative experts. In addition, they may note in Algo Henderson's study that government and business executives occasionally are attracted to this administrative wonderland. Finally, to those who regard the dean's dilemma as mercifully irrelevant to them, one might ask why government is turning more to universities to perform its tasks. And one might also look here for clues to overcoming the persistent incompatibility in the increasing marriages of university and government in the holy bonds of research. The symposium was arranged and guided by James A. Perkins."
10.2307_973433	1958	"Perhaps no public administrator has been so selfconscious about his relationship to policy and politics as the city manager. Nevertheless, we have little factual data on the manager's current role in policy decision-making and little agreement on the role he should play. In these three articles, (1) data about how decisions were made in three council-manager cities are brought together with hypotheses suggested by the data, (2) an observer of council-manager government warns against intrusion of managers into policy realms appropriate to elected officials and suggests that managers foster stronger elected leadership mainly through changed political mechanisms, and (3) another observer, while acknowledging that a change in the political system of manager cities may be needed, concludes that managers, no matter how they view their policy role, are ""officers of political leadership"" and that the question must be considered from that base. (Separating politics and administration-at the federal level-is discussed also in ""The Senior Civil Service and the Career System,"" page 189.)"
10.2307_973432	1958	"Perhaps no public administrator has been so selfconscious about his relationship to policy and politics as the city manager. Nevertheless, we have little factual data on the manager's current role in policy decision-making and little agreement on the role he should play. In these three articles, (1) data about how decisions were made in three council-manager cities are brought together with hypotheses suggested by the data, (2) an observer of council-manager government warns against intrusion of managers into policy realms appropriate to elected officials and suggests that managers foster stronger elected leadership mainly through changed political mechanisms, and (3) another observer, while acknowledging that a change in the political system of manager cities may be needed, concludes that managers, no matter how they view their policy role, are ""officers of political leadership"" and that the question must be considered from that base. (Separating politics and administration-at the federal level-is discussed also in ""The Senior Civil Service and the Career System,"" page 189.)"
10.2307_973426	1958	"Few reorganization proposals have been as pregnant with major policy considerations as the President's plan to reorganize U. S. defense administration, presented to the Congress April 3, 1958, modified and passed July 24, and signed into law August 6. This four-part analysis concentrates on those policy aspects-the blend of knowledge and attitudes that is formed by the defense organization from the varied contributors to policy: the military, other specialists, civilian administrators, political executives, spokesmen for related federal programs both foreign and domestic, and Congress. The plan is seen first in the light of general ideas about organization, then as it may change Defense Department planning and operations, third as it is expected to affect the dominance of the military by civilians, i. e. specialist views by generalist considerations, and finally as it could shift the balance of legislative-executive responsibility. The Review-accustomed to bringing outside views to administrators-in this article provides instead public administration insights on a question of importance to the general citizenry."
10.2307_973429	1958	"Few reorganization proposals have been as pregnant with major policy considerations as the President's plan to reorganize U. S. defense administration, presented to the Congress April 3, 1958, modified and passed July 24, and signed into law August 6. This four-part analysis concentrates on those policy aspects-the blend of knowledge and attitudes that is formed by the defense organization from the varied contributors to policy: the military, other specialists, civilian administrators, political executives, spokesmen for related federal programs both foreign and domestic, and Congress. The plan is seen first in the light of general ideas about organization, then as it may change Defense Department planning and operations, third as it is expected to affect the dominance of the military by civilians, i. e. specialist views by generalist considerations, and finally as it could shift the balance of legislative-executive responsibility. The Review-accustomed to bringing outside views to administrators-in this article provides instead public administration insights on a question of importance to the general citizenry."
10.2307_973680	1959	"Despite continuing opposition, the Career Executive Board is going ahead with plans for a corps of top executives for the U. S. career service. Here, a longtime senior civil servant suggests the type of career executive program he believes the federal government needs: a system for discovering those relatively rare persons who have both thorough knowledge of the career civil service and the ""sparkle, breadth, agility, and articulateness"" of the political leader, who can bring to the political executive the resources of the career staff and bring to his subordinates an understanding of the political executives' goals. Most of these positions also require program expertness, the author argues; the corps of top civil servants must not be thought of as an interchangeable pool of management technicians."
10.2307_973206	1959	"When a public program suddenly expands, what administrative arrangements can keep it operating honestly, efficiently, and democratically? Here, a former state highway commissioner surveys the impact of the recent increase in highway construction, finding that strains have occurred in many states but breakdowns only in the ""spoils"" states. The fastest-growing state program in this decade (145 per cent increase in expenditures between 1950 and 1958), highway construction and maintenance in 1957 accounted for one dollar of every eight spent by governments at all levels outside the defense and foreign affairs fields."
10.2307_973361	1958	"The spurt of educational programs for executives noted by Marshall Dimock in the Spring Review be-speaks not only the growing emphasis on in-service training and adult education of all types but also the relatively recent spread in the recognition that management is far different from expertness in a specialty and much more than a common-sense art. Attention to executive development has been associated with a rethinking of the role and skills of the successful executive and with growing emphasis on leadership as the proper stance for the administrator within the organization and his appropriate role in public policy development and community affairs. Here are described and analyzed five somewhat different educational programs for executives and potential executives, along with a survey of the reactions of participants to one of them. The programs differ in content-though the reader may well consider whether the difference is substantial. They differ too in important details relating to the learning process, e. g., length of the course, whether it takes the participant completely away from his desk, whether persons of differing or similar background are brought together."
10.2307_973366	1958	"The spurt of educational programs for executives noted by Marshall Dimock in the Spring Review be-speaks not only the growing emphasis on in-service training and adult education of all types but also the relatively recent spread in the recognition that management is far different from expertness in a specialty and much more than a common-sense art. Attention to executive development has been associated with a rethinking of the role and skills of the successful executive and with growing emphasis on leadership as the proper stance for the administrator within the organization and his appropriate role in public policy development and community affairs. Here are described and analyzed five somewhat different educational programs for executives and potential executives, along with a survey of the reactions of participants to one of them. The programs differ in content-though the reader may well consider whether the difference is substantial. They differ too in important details relating to the learning process, e. g., length of the course, whether it takes the participant completely away from his desk, whether persons of differing or similar background are brought together."
10.2307_973362	1958	"The spurt of educational programs for executives noted by Marshall Dimock in the Spring Review be-speaks not only the growing emphasis on in-service training and adult education of all types but also the relatively recent spread in the recognition that management is far different from expertness in a specialty and much more than a common-sense art. Attention to executive development has been associated with a rethinking of the role and skills of the successful executive and with growing emphasis on leadership as the proper stance for the administrator within the organization and his appropriate role in public policy development and community affairs. Here are described and analyzed five somewhat different educational programs for executives and potential executives, along with a survey of the reactions of participants to one of them. The programs differ in content-though the reader may well consider whether the difference is substantial. They differ too in important details relating to the learning process, e. g., length of the course, whether it takes the participant completely away from his desk, whether persons of differing or similar background are brought together."
10.2307_973857	1959	"Federal personnel policy over nearly 170 years has assumed that all positions could be filled by persons already competent or (the Jacksonian attitude) that public employment could be made simple enough so anyone could learn it quickly and without special training. The history of federal policy on in-service training narrated here raises many questions: Why did the experience of business, which has for more than a generation enthusiastically supported in-service training, strike so little interest among federal policy-makers for many years? Why was the example of training for the military not paralleled for equally unique civilian duties? Why did the federal government fall behind local and state governments who increasingly used training programs for which many federal employees were ineligible? Was the Comptroller-General's narrow interpretation of agency authority an accurate reading of congressional intent? If not, why did Congress wait so long to correct it? Why was there little Executive Branch leadership over many years when the assumptions behind the no-training policy were clearly false? The answers-some suggested here-go to the heart of the politics of administrative reform of which the policy on training is a useful example."
10.2307_973267	1959	"On the frontier of public administration, along with programing computers and staffing outer space, is the delegation of operations to private and semi-private organizations by contract. In many instances, tasks are delegated which are so experimental that no firm could submit a feasible bid and the government could not negotiate a reasonable fixed-fee contract. Cost-type contracts have been used widely in such situations since World War II, particularly in the atomic energy field. Here are set out many of the problems of cost-type contracting -some not easily anticipated by the novice-as well as some conclusions about its efficiency."
10.2307_974066	1960	"Probably the most effective formal job of long-term operational budgeting is that done in Philadelphia, wrote the executive director of the American Society of Planning Officials recently. Here, a man who was on the inside at its birth and has been a very close outside observer more recently briefly describes the program and how it evolved (quite accidentally), and suggests steps to improve and apply it at all levels of government."
10.2307_973268	1959	"Emphasize the satisfactions of serving the public, convey the sense of accomplishment in public service employment and bring university professors into the recruitment process, young career administrators and professors of political science advised government recruiters through recent surveys. Federal interns and recent graduates of Fels Institute of Local and State Government told their reasons for choosing public service, compared their experience with expectation, and criticized government recruitment. Professors viewed public service through their students' eyes. The survey replies are analyzed here."
10.2307_973204	1959	"Results of small-group research, while not sufficient to found a complete theory, have contributed extensively to our understanding of small groups and of informal relationships in larger organizations. Since the administrator is part of many small groups and is responsible for many more, these findings are directly applicable to his job. We now know with some certainty, for example, that leadership is not a single personality trait of a particular individual but is a set of functions related to a particular situation and is a different set in different situations. We know that the same type of leadership elicits different responses from different personalities, and we have some measurements to predict these differences. We know that groups tend to be more stable and happy (though not necessarily more productive) when group members look to the formally-designated leaders for direction rather than to persons who are not their formal supervisors. In addition, we have learned about the effects on group action of such characteristics as cohesiveness and compatibility, and of the pervasiveness and impact of group norms."
10.2307_973369	1958	"Men, though styling themselves rational, often are not. Therefore, in analyzing public affairs, the psychological must be considered along with the logical. Here a proponent of the Senior Civil Service looks at opposition arguments and suggests that they might mask personal considerations: concern of career administrators at being left out or, if included, at being transferred against their wishes; concern of former administrators that their opportunity for lateral entry to high-level positions would be diminished and that the positions would be drained of opportunity for policy leadership."
10.2307_973678	1959	"Regulatory procedures are again under attack, primarily by practicing attorneys through the American Bar Association. The procedures worked out in the mid-1940's to guarantee rights of the citizen against the overzealous administrator no longer satisfy many attorneys and legal scholars. Some feel that the Administrative Procedure Act of 1946 was sabotaged by the courts, some that administrative authority is becoming a greater threat to personal freedom than it was then, some that the 1946 Act was just a first step which should lead toward regular court procedures. Here the specific proposals and arguments for ""reform"" of regulatory procedures are scrutinized."
10.2307_973368	1958	"What has been the history of accomplishment of [citizen] commissions? Rufus E. Miles suggested this as a sample of the kind of question practicing administrators would like researched. (18 PAR 108 (Spring, 1958).) Here, citizen committees on agricultural research are examined not only in terms of their accomplishments but also of their administration, problems, strengths, and weaknesses. In addition to improving our sense of advisory committee behavior, the study dwells on one of the more pressing administrative questions of today: democratic responsibility in research programs."
10.2307_973205	1959	"Senator Jackson's analysis of our national policy-making machinery and his proposals for its reorganization ""created something of a sensation,"" according to Professor Hans J. Morgenthau, when they were presented April 16 (substantially as published here) before the National War College. Where in an organization should policy planning take place? At what level should efforts be made to compromise differences? What is the role of inter-agency committees? And what is the decision-making job of the top executive? Answers are suggested and compared to current practice which the Senator sees as failing to produce an over-all strategy adequate to the requirements of the cold war. This is one of several recent statements by thoughtful observers of public affairs arguing that more adequate machinery for policy-making is needed in the executive branch. Among recent suggestions for improving top policy-making is the President's promised plan for more thinking time for the ""highest echelons of the executive departments."" Senator Jackson has initiated an unprecedented Senate study of this whole range of issues, as Chairman of the special Subcommittee on National Policy Machinery."
10.2307_973885	1960	"Few if any organizations operate without someone telling someone else what to do (though an order may be subtly conveyed, by a question or even a look). How a person responds to authority depends on his upbringing, his perceptiveness, the situation, and the boss, according to this analysis. Four basic premises on which subordinates accept authority are analyzed here. An understanding of these premises probably can contribute to an administrator's effectiveness both in everyday operations and in planning his basic organization."
10.2307_973363	1958	"The spurt of educational programs for executives noted by Marshall Dimock in the Spring Review be-speaks not only the growing emphasis on in-service training and adult education of all types but also the relatively recent spread in the recognition that management is far different from expertness in a specialty and much more than a common-sense art. Attention to executive development has been associated with a rethinking of the role and skills of the successful executive and with growing emphasis on leadership as the proper stance for the administrator within the organization and his appropriate role in public policy development and community affairs. Here are described and analyzed five somewhat different educational programs for executives and potential executives, along with a survey of the reactions of participants to one of them. The programs differ in content-though the reader may well consider whether the difference is substantial. They differ too in important details relating to the learning process, e. g., length of the course, whether it takes the participant completely away from his desk, whether persons of differing or similar background are brought together."
10.2307_974060	1960	"University administration is like administration of other enterprises, John Corson assures us, in consisting of decision-making, programing, communication of program, control, and appraisal. But descriptions of what middle and top management of higher education face in undertaking these universal processes may sound highly unusual: for example, participative management in which the administrator is like a majority leader among near-equals-who have scant loyalty to the organization even while acting with deep loyalty to the organization's purposes, units that fight un-Parkinsonlike to avoid new jurisdictions, organizations which seldom have a clearly defined over-all statement of purpose and whose parts are connected geographically and on paper but scarcely by regular operating relationships. Yet before other public administrators dismiss this as science fiction so far as their work is concerned, they should recognize that some of the causes of university administration's differences are growing forces in their own organizations-for example, employee loyalty to a professional field in competition with loyalty to the organization, employees with so much expertness that outsiders are unable to understand them easily, and severe shortages of top flight specialist talent resulting in individual bargaining on pay among other effects. Also, some administrative approaches advocated generally-such as emphasis on leadership rather than authority and on wide participation in decision-making-are here displayed in extreme form, which can provide guidance to others on the same route. Administrators of other programs will find many familiar problems discussed here: for example, the persistent encroachment of procedural details and public relations demands on the executive's central job of defining purpose, and the need to find and prepare executives who can be both program philosophers and administrative experts. In addition, they may note in Algo Henderson's study that government and business executives occasionally are attracted to this administrative wonderland. Finally, to those who regard the dean's dilemma as mercifully irrelevant to them, one might ask why government is turning more to universities to perform its tasks. And one might also look here for clues to overcoming the persistent incompatibility in the increasing marriages of university and government in the holy bonds of research. The symposium was arranged and guided by James A. Perkins."
10.2307_973269	1959	"Statistics provide management with shorthand for efficient reporting and a short cut for fact-finding. Maintaining control of large, complex, decentralized programs demands such aids, and the author gives examples of management weaknesses caused by poor grasp of statistics among business as well as government administrators. To overcome these weaknesses, it is unnecessary to make a statistician of every manager, he observes. A course, described here, has been successful in teaching administrators just enough statistics to improve their work, its content tailored to the needs of large organizations in general and to specific practices of the individual agency."
10.2307_973970	1960	"There are plenty of laughs in government, as the Congressional Record often demonstrates. But many will laugh at this excerpt with red faces-some from embarrassed identification with the administrators caught in a teapot tempest that whirled up to the Postmaster General, some with anger over congressional interference in a minor employee grievance, and some because a men's room is not their natural habitat. Like most case studies, this one also gives an administrator a chance for forethought-before he, too, awakens to a nightmare in which he cannot move because a hippopotamus is standing on his little toe."
10.2307_973271	1959	"Students of public administration have looked mainly at immediate problems and current experience, despite considerable attention given by historians to the administrative institutions of the past. By contrast, students and even practitioners of political institution building often looked down the whole length of recorded thought and experience in making their analyses and considering their action. A sample of the rich vein of recorded administrative experience is noted here in a brief survey of public administration in ancient Egypt, Athens, and Rome."
10.2307_973966	1960	"The role of career executive, which we have sought in these pages over many years, cannot be found without some sense of the kind of person he is. Here a mirror is held up for the public administrator, catching both strengths and weaknesses. The mirror has been polished by nearly three decades of government experience, informed by scholarship, both here and abroad."
10.2307_973882	1960	"Probably no major administrative technique has won so wide an interest and acceptance in a short time as has performance budgeting. Its advocates have foreseen such happy consequences as more rational legislative-executive relations, administrative decentralization without loss of responsibility, more sharply drawn alternatives for program selection, and a clearer picture of costs which can spot-light inefficiency and point out cheaper routes to stated goals. Here, the predictions about performance budgeting are examined alongside its achievements in Los Angeles, New York State, the U. S. Department of Agriculture, and Cincinnati."
10.2307_974063	1960	"University administration is like administration of other enterprises, John Corson assures us, in consisting of decision-making, programing, communication of program, control, and appraisal. But descriptions of what middle and top management of higher education face in undertaking these universal processes may sound highly unusual: for example, participative management in which the administrator is like a majority leader among near-equals-who have scant loyalty to the organization even while acting with deep loyalty to the organization's purposes, units that fight un-Parkinsonlike to avoid new jurisdictions, organizations which seldom have a clearly defined over-all statement of purpose and whose parts are connected geographically and on paper but scarcely by regular operating relationships. Yet before other public administrators dismiss this as science fiction so far as their work is concerned, they should recognize that some of the causes of university administration's differences are growing forces in their own organizations-for example, employee loyalty to a professional field in competition with loyalty to the organization, employees with so much expertness that outsiders are unable to understand them easily, and severe shortages of top flight specialist talent resulting in individual bargaining on pay among other effects. Also, some administrative approaches advocated generally-such as emphasis on leadership rather than authority and on wide participation in decision-making-are here displayed in extreme form, which can provide guidance to others on the same route. Administrators of other programs will find many familiar problems discussed here: for example, the persistent encroachment of procedural details and public relations demands on the executive's central job of defining purpose, and the need to find and prepare executives who can be both program philosophers and administrative experts. In addition, they may note in Algo Henderson's study that government and business executives occasionally are attracted to this administrative wonderland. Finally, to those who regard the dean's dilemma as mercifully irrelevant to them, one might ask why government is turning more to universities to perform its tasks. And one might also look here for clues to overcoming the persistent incompatibility in the increasing marriages of university and government in the holy bonds of research. The symposium was arranged and guided by James A. Perkins."
10.2307_973855	1959	"Those seeking a fundamental understanding of public administration have recognized more and more that by comparing administrative systems of many countries, what is essential about government and bureaucracy can be more easily distinguished from what is incidental. This way of looking at public administration particularly points up the relationship of the administrator to the public and his role in the whole governmental process. Also, the results of different types of organization and operation can be examined. While the how of comparative research is still the main concern of scholars in this field, even these early efforts to wrestle the gigantic mass of material into related groupings can be a guide to the administrator seeking a deeper grasp of his job. Strange as other societies may seem, the contrasts as well as the similarities to our own systems and behavior help to polish the mirror for self-study."
10.2307_973969	1960	"The recent establishment of central complaint bureaus in several U. S. cities perhaps indicates a growing feeling that our traditional reliance on court action against individual administrators may not be keeping abreast of the need to control administrative action. Easier avenues of complaint and redress for citizens seem needed. Six years ago, Denmark followed Sweden and Finland in establishing a ""people's watchdog"" against the government. Public opinion in Sweden, Brian Chapman reports in The Profession of Government, had come ""to regard the JO almost as the Tribune of the People. a protector against the abuses of those in authority...."" ""Recently, probably due to Dr. Chapman's book, much interest has been shown in Britain in this office,"" an Irish review of the book observes. As in Sweden after 150 years with a similar office, Professor Abraham reports almost unanimous approval of the new Danish ombudsmand."
10.2307_973967	1960	"For many years, the Soviet Union has tried to impose a high degree of national planning on its huge governmental organism and has tried to enforce the plan through organizations outside the regular government machinery-the party, the trade unions, and the secret police. Recent USSR efforts to decentralize tip us off to the failure of highly centralized planning and control. They also offer important information on a problem commanding attention throughout the world-finding the right combination of initiative and coordination in massive organizations. Here, these questions are sketched in the light of Soviet and American practice and thought, with comparisons of education for public administration and its relevance."
10.2307_973965	1960	"If the scientist or engineer finds administrators irrational, it is only because administrators consider many more relevant elements when they make decisions than he does, a study of 332 decisions in the Los Angeles area reveals. The study uncovers the bases of information and rationality used in administrative policy-making, clarifying the process over which the administrator presides (he does not make all the decisions, he often merely presides over the process) and perhaps helping him adjust the ""mix"" of his rationality to the most successful and ethical."
10.2307_973427	1958	"Few reorganization proposals have been as pregnant with major policy considerations as the President's plan to reorganize U. S. defense administration, presented to the Congress April 3, 1958, modified and passed July 24, and signed into law August 6. This four-part analysis concentrates on those policy aspects-the blend of knowledge and attitudes that is formed by the defense organization from the varied contributors to policy: the military, other specialists, civilian administrators, political executives, spokesmen for related federal programs both foreign and domestic, and Congress. The plan is seen first in the light of general ideas about organization, then as it may change Defense Department planning and operations, third as it is expected to affect the dominance of the military by civilians, i. e. specialist views by generalist considerations, and finally as it could shift the balance of legislative-executive responsibility. The Review-accustomed to bringing outside views to administrators-in this article provides instead public administration insights on a question of importance to the general citizenry."
10.2307_973679	1959	"Several recent Review authors have wrestled with questions of political-administrative relationships at all levels of government. Each recognized that policy questions do not end at the boundary between political officials and career administrators. They differ somewhat on how the career administrator's decisions are to be kept responsive to public will and the political official's decisions kept properly informed by the experts. Here, two experienced and successful city managers place their current thinking alongside views expressed in the Summer 1958 issue. They explain why the amount and flourish of political debate has declined in most cities and why managers have moved into leadership on policy development. For further debate are such questions as these: Do city councils air public questions sufficiently for reasoned consideration by the public? Are managers or councils raising the important questions of urban policy at all (for example those suggested by Coleman Woodbury in the Autumn 1958 Review)? John Pfiffner raises related questions in a book review in this issue."
10.2307_973884	1960	"Probably no major administrative technique has won so wide an interest and acceptance in a short time as has performance budgeting. Its advocates have foreseen such happy consequences as more rational legislative-executive relations, administrative decentralization without loss of responsibility, more sharply drawn alternatives for program selection, and a clearer picture of costs which can spot-light inefficiency and point out cheaper routes to stated goals. Here, the predictions about performance budgeting are examined alongside its achievements in Los Angeles, New York State, the U. S. Department of Agriculture, and Cincinnati."
10.2307_973677	1959	"Short courses, books, and articles exhort administrators to make decisions more methodically, but there has been little analysis of the decision-making process now used by public administrators. The usual process is investigated here-and generally defended against proposals for more ""scientific"" methods. Decisions of individual administrators, of course, must be integrated with decisions of others to form the mosaic of public policy. This integration of individual decisions has become the major concern of organization theory, and the way individuals make decisions necessarily affects the way those decisions are best meshed with others'. In addition, decision-making method relates to allocation of decision-making responsibility-who should make what decision. More ""scientific"" decision-making also is discussed in this issue: ""Tools for Decision-Making in Resources Planning."""
10.2307_973871	1960	"Career administrators in the United States government and many states again are faced with the unknown of a new set of leaders. There is enough experience with political transitions, however, to reduce uncertainty and to suggest ways of strengthening the new administration at a time of great difficulty for it, when success or failure to grasp quickly the reins of government and master its machinery can affect the success of the new chief executive throughout his tenure. Here, a student of federal transitions and two participants in state transitions (who are also political scientists) explore the political, social, psychological and economic forces that have affected transfers of power. They turn our attention from the problem of maintaining continuity of government, which most often has been our focus, to the more resistant problem of achieving policy changes which the election appeared to mandate. Due to the publication schedule, all of the articles were written before the election."
10.2307_973431	1958	"Decentralized administration does not relieve headquarters of such management responsibilities as budgeting, personnel planning, setting standards of efficiency, adjusting programs to available resources, and foreseeing tomorrow's administrative or program problems for the entire organization. These tasks require a continuing flow of information, including data on how the agency's manpower resources are being allocated. The problem is to assure speedy and accurate information at the center without cutting deeply into operating time. Techniques are being developed to achieve this; one such method, which calculates the time spent on the various programs and internal functions, is reported here."
10.2307_973428	1958	"Few reorganization proposals have been as pregnant with major policy considerations as the President's plan to reorganize U. S. defense administration, presented to the Congress April 3, 1958, modified and passed July 24, and signed into law August 6. This four-part analysis concentrates on those policy aspects-the blend of knowledge and attitudes that is formed by the defense organization from the varied contributors to policy: the military, other specialists, civilian administrators, political executives, spokesmen for related federal programs both foreign and domestic, and Congress. The plan is seen first in the light of general ideas about organization, then as it may change Defense Department planning and operations, third as it is expected to affect the dominance of the military by civilians, i. e. specialist views by generalist considerations, and finally as it could shift the balance of legislative-executive responsibility. The Review-accustomed to bringing outside views to administrators-in this article provides instead public administration insights on a question of importance to the general citizenry."
10.2307_973435	1958	"To most administrators, widely-accepted axioms of good administration are familiar, but also familiar is the large gap between what we believe and what we do. Among the many reasons for the gap is the absence of top to bottom dedication to good administration in an organization, the lack of a ""management program."" An executive of the Port of New York Authority here describes the Port Authority's management program, finding the determination to follow (and even keep ahead of) public administration principles the main reason for the organization's management success, along with such factors as dynamic leadership at the top, a policy-making body which leaves the administration wide discretion within the broad program it outlines, and a financial arrangement which requires self-support."
10.2307_973886	1960	"In ten years, two-thirds of the 1,000 top-ranking federal career officials will be eligible for retirement. Municipal manpower needs are sufficiently threatening that The Ford Foundation and American Municipal Association have launched a $500,000 study of the subject. In seeking high-level management and professional personnel, should we continue to emphasize staffing the individual job or stress career channels for capable personnel? In the extensive debates taking place on these questions, it is generally assumed that American civil service systems staff the job and that little career staffing is possible within this framework. Here, we are shown that the two systems can be combined and that the Federal Civil Service has moved a long way toward career staffing though retaining its basic job-centered system. Federal efforts to get the best of both worlds seem readily applicable to state and local personnel systems."
10.2307_973872	1960	"Social scientists have contributed to the improvement of public administration by deepening our vision of the events that go on around us-clarifying for us our role, our own behavior, and that of our superiors and subordinates so we are better able to predict and plan. Here we are shown how research on the behavior of small groups can help to guide us through an actual and typical government management problem, an effort to increase productivity by reorganizing a work process."
10.2307_973367	1958	"Ordinary concepts of staff and line, when applied to the Presidency, run afoul of the bigness of the federal government. For example, the President's staff is really not a single unit; we must distinguish three levels: close personal advisers, the White House Office, and the Executive Office of the President. Similarly, it may be too simple to point to the growing regularity and staff of Cabinet meetings as an indication of increasingly direct relationship of the President to his immediate line subordinates, department heads-for the Cabinet's secretariat is the President's staff and may be more barrier than channel and, in recent Cabinet meetings, department heads have been equalled or outnumbered by presidential staff. The often subtle line and staff relationships at the apex of power are dissected here, with some comparison to long-accepted ideas on staffing the Presidency."
10.2307_973430	1958	"Major issues of public administration are raised by the proposals for a senior civil service in the federal government: interchangeability of high-level administrators among programs and functions; closed career service vs. extensive interchange of executives with other governments, business, and the universities; high prestige and suitable compensation for public administrators; and the proper political relationships, role, and impact of top civil servants. Do our governments fail to win capable career executives and use them effectively? If so, can a change in the personnel system right this? Can it do so without loss of other important values?"
10.2307_973854	1959	"Though knowing better, administrators often subconsciously accept the personnel selection process as something mechanical, akin to inserting a program into a computer. The selection process for administrators is examined here in flesh and blood terms, as it relates to other aspects of administration as well as to filling specific jobs. We are reminded of the great deal we do not know about choosing administrators that we usually take for granted as known. If verified by observations of practitioners and studies of researchers, these hypotheses can provide firmer guides to personnel action and to the identification and proper placement of administrative talent."
10.2307_973364	1958	"The spurt of educational programs for executives noted by Marshall Dimock in the Spring Review be-speaks not only the growing emphasis on in-service training and adult education of all types but also the relatively recent spread in the recognition that management is far different from expertness in a specialty and much more than a common-sense art. Attention to executive development has been associated with a rethinking of the role and skills of the successful executive and with growing emphasis on leadership as the proper stance for the administrator within the organization and his appropriate role in public policy development and community affairs. Here are described and analyzed five somewhat different educational programs for executives and potential executives, along with a survey of the reactions of participants to one of them. The programs differ in content-though the reader may well consider whether the difference is substantial. They differ too in important details relating to the learning process, e. g., length of the course, whether it takes the participant completely away from his desk, whether persons of differing or similar background are brought together."
10.2307_974064	1960	"No one needs to tell the professional administrator in a ""boss""-run City Hall that the future of patronage affects him. In merit-dominated agencies, the question has equal but different interest. There, the career executive has many concerns with politically-sensitive issues and works closely with political executives, so he must keep track of political trends. It is argued here that the trend of declining patronage will affect not only local politics but the national party system and the entire political process."
10.2307_973207	1959	"Recent debate over federal budget balancing reminds us that there is no simple way to state the current spending or debt of a huge organization. Since different accounting systems provide substantially different answers (and require substantially different investments of administrative cost), suiting the system to the purpose is important. For example, it may not be appropriate for government to imitate industry's practice (particularly accrual accounting and cost-based budgeting), according to the author, who has experience both in commerce and public finance. Accounting's relationship to efficient management and to democratic control of defense administration is surveyed here."
10.2307_973853	1959	"Good administration, we usually feel, is best assured by a chief executive with clear authority to plan for and lead his branch of government. Here a proviso is suggested, based on recent events in southern state governments: private interests often are served ahead of the public interest by the strong chief executive when his administrative practices are unchecked by the legislature and public. Two other checks on irresponsible executive action are growing up: professionalization within the career service, providing standards outside those set by the chief executive, and close relations between program administrators and their counterparts in other units of government, with standards and guidance from the federal government."
10.2307_973270	1959	"The outline of public administration looks different when it is filled in with details from experience, writes a veteran of public administration teaching after several years as head of a small unit in one of the nation's largest government agencies. In particular, delegation, coordination, and control have different emphases in the huge Air Force Department than they do in the textbook, he notes. Here are some examples."
10.2307_973968	1960	"Social scientists recently have turned attention to the process of effecting change in organizations, a subject which management analysts have worried about for many years-at least since Frederick W. Taylor wrote, ""If anyone expects large results in six months or a year in a very large works he is looking for the impossible."" While waiting for some theory from scholars that might guide public administrators in installing improvements, practitioners may find ideas and theory-builders data in this case study of a nimble attack against an archaic system well-protected by status quo-seekers."
10.2307_973852	1959	"Three possible weaknesses in the educational programs for public executives described in the last Review are suggested here (along with praise of many aspects): (1) They apparently are not sufficiently integrated into a total executive development program by the employing agency for each individual, (2) there is too little attention to the emotional barriers to effective action as opposed to the barrier of inadequate knowledge, and (3) there may be danger of over-emphasizing administrative technique as against program knowledge. In addition, we are warned that executive training programs in general can do more harm than good, with four characteristics of potentially harmful programs explained."
10.2307_973436	1958	"Leonard White was a scholar informed by experience and an administrator guided by study and reflection. The influences he exerted through his scholarly writings and his innovative contributions to improvement of the public service were great and lasting. His success, as seen by a close co-worker, required strong personal qualities as well as intellect, perhaps most significantly a remarkable self-organization and discipline which directed all his work toward carefully-chosen goals. The achievements of Leonard White, here described, will serve as a hopeful fact of history and an inspiration to many to bring new industry to their tasks."
10.2307_974065	1960	"Few recent PAR articles have aroused as much response as Glenn Stahl's ""The Network of Authority."" Subsequent chapter, conference, and institute discussions indicate a continuing interest in its subject: relationship of line and staff. Here, Stahl supplements his main point, that staff responsibility for sustaining the organization's operations necessarily involve authority, by emphasizing that the means (the way things are done) may be important ends in themselves, particularly in government. He also points to the real devil-overspecialization of both staff and line, in contrast to the usual whipping boy-the alleged domineering staff man."
10.2307_973873	1960	"Among the many pathways of comparative research in administration perhaps the most immediately fruitful is the investigation of how other cultures try to solve the problems of public management that we find persistent. New ideas can be expected even on questions we have examined for a long time because experience within another culture often starts at a different point and so builds differently. Also, if we look at these problems in a new stage setting, their elements often are stripped of peripheral concerns. Fundamental properties of organizations are more clearly defined. Here, two such persistent problems are examined in their Soviet context: the proper allocation of power between auxiliary staffs and line administrators and arrangements of forces within an organization that assist in maintaining control at the center."
10.2307_973881	1960	"Probably no major administrative technique has won so wide an interest and acceptance in a short time as has performance budgeting. Its advocates have foreseen such happy consequences as more rational legislative-executive relations, administrative decentralization without loss of responsibility, more sharply drawn alternatives for program selection, and a clearer picture of costs which can spot-light inefficiency and point out cheaper routes to stated goals. Here, the predictions about performance budgeting are examined alongside its achievements in Los Angeles, New York State, the U. S. Department of Agriculture, and Cincinnati."
10.2307_974061	1960	"University administration is like administration of other enterprises, John Corson assures us, in consisting of decision-making, programing, communication of program, control, and appraisal. But descriptions of what middle and top management of higher education face in undertaking these universal processes may sound highly unusual: for example, participative management in which the administrator is like a majority leader among near-equals-who have scant loyalty to the organization even while acting with deep loyalty to the organization's purposes, units that fight un-Parkinsonlike to avoid new jurisdictions, organizations which seldom have a clearly defined over-all statement of purpose and whose parts are connected geographically and on paper but scarcely by regular operating relationships. Yet before other public administrators dismiss this as science fiction so far as their work is concerned, they should recognize that some of the causes of university administration's differences are growing forces in their own organizations-for example, employee loyalty to a professional field in competition with loyalty to the organization, employees with so much expertness that outsiders are unable to understand them easily, and severe shortages of top flight specialist talent resulting in individual bargaining on pay among other effects. Also, some administrative approaches advocated generally-such as emphasis on leadership rather than authority and on wide participation in decision-making-are here displayed in extreme form, which can provide guidance to others on the same route. Administrators of other programs will find many familiar problems discussed here: for example, the persistent encroachment of procedural details and public relations demands on the executive's central job of defining purpose, and the need to find and prepare executives who can be both program philosophers and administrative experts. In addition, they may note in Algo Henderson's study that government and business executives occasionally are attracted to this administrative wonderland. Finally, to those who regard the dean's dilemma as mercifully irrelevant to them, one might ask why government is turning more to universities to perform its tasks. And one might also look here for clues to overcoming the persistent incompatibility in the increasing marriages of university and government in the holy bonds of research. The symposium was arranged and guided by James A. Perkins."
10.2307_973951	1961	The city manager idea is an idea heartily accepted by most professional administrators who see in this method a sensible relationship between politics and administration. This article provides some evidence showing that the benefits of the plan are not equally apparent to members of the different social classes. It is argued that much more conscious effort must be expended to provide for the political participation of all social groups in city manager cities if the city manager plan is to continue to develop.
10.2307_973571	1968	"This symposium will stand on its own base. But a word of comment is appropriate. The symposium is based on the Society's 1967 National Conference in San Francisco in several ways. But in the intervening period various things happened to the symposium on the way to the printer. There is no need to tell the story. It is sufficient to observe that all the editors concerned changed professional locations in the interim. Meanwhile, it has been decided to organize much of the annual meeting of the Society for 1968 around intergovernmental interaction topics. So the symposium looks not just retrospectively to San Francisco but prospectively to Boston. Certainly the subject is worthy of all the discussion it can get.-Dwight Waldo, Editor-in-Chief"
10.2307_973286	1967	"The author describes the organization of the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Five semiautonomous units are contained within a single cohesive department, and departmental activities have been regrouped on a problem-solving basis. Field activities have been consolidated under seven regional administrators in order to strengthen the field structure and allow appropriate decisions to be made in the field. The unique role of the Department in creative federalism and in the synthesis of social, human, and economic factors and development is assessed."
10.2307_973639	1964	"While governmental fragmentation is a fact common to the American metropolitan scene, the authors challenge the easy assumption that this condition produces a uniform impact on local government policy and decision making. For the student of government the ""spread city"" is a problem in comparative government and analysis. The public administrator and local official, on the other hand, must develop a strategy and set of tactics based on the specific intergovernmental and fiscal variables of his, and neighboring jurisdictions."
10.2307_975278	1972	"Community action is a unique and promising American social innovation which promises not only social improvement, but also social dynamics which may reveal much under scrutiny. There are problems in the implementation of this concept, however, which include not only the context of American social values, but the operational mechanism itself. Rather than give up on the idea, we should now make the necessary adjustments, on the basis of past experience, to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of community action."
10.2307_975244	1974	"Recent studies, including two by the author, have uncovered a troublesome pattern for public administration: business executives consistently report more favorable attitudes toward their organizations than government managers. In an argument combining maxims of social psychology with analysis of key realities in business and government organizations, the author attempts to account for these differences and suggests ways of improving attitudes among public managers."
10.2307_973302	1966	"The widespread introduction of electronic data processing at every level of government operation has brought very great, and as yet incomplete, changes in organizational procedures and structure. Already, more sophisticated tools of management science are being utilized in public administration; operations research, systems analysis, and simulation, the quantitative methods, which have demonstrated their effectiveness in aerospace endeavors, are being applied to matters of public concern. The author here presents preliminary findings on an ongoing research study of the State of California's experience in the application of systems analysis to five designated problem areas-crime, transportation, waste management, information-handling, and welfare. Although the potential advantages and limitations of these techniques cannot be predicted at this early stage, it is apparent that new patterns of intergovernmental relationships are evolving, that new kinds of staff capability must be developed, and that management in the Space Age calls for a new order of competence, viability, and innovativeness."
10.2307_974422	1970	"The generalist concept has referred to several different administrative types in the literature. One type of generalist is the civil servant whose career exhibits organizational mobility by spanning more than one major department or independent agency in the federal government. Such organizational mobility has long been considered a positive virtue, supposedly indicating superior skills and breadth of knowledge. By contrast, those whose careers fall within a single department are downgraded as being narrow specialists. The research reported here divided a sample of federal career employees at the GS 16-18 level into those who have worked in only one department and those who have worked in two or more. The two groups were compared on a variety of biographical characteristics. The results show that the mobile group contains those in administrative occupations acting in management support or staff functions. In contrast, the nonmobile group tends to contain subject matter professionals closely allied with program interests."
10.2307_973559	1964	"According to this author, the review of governmental budgets involves questions of economic efficiency which require the quantitative expression of the relation between ""things,"" money, and output. He argues that conflict resulting from the rational questioning of the executive budget may be evidence of the presence of real economic alternatives."
10.2307_973296	1966	"Budgetary reform in the United States has evolved through three distinct stages, the last of which is associated with the contemporary Planning-Programming-Budgeting System. In the initial stage, the primary emphasis was on central control of spending and the budget was utilized to guard against administrative abuses. The detailed classification of objects of expenditure was the main control mechanism. The second stage was management-oriented. It was concerned with the efficient performance of work and prescribed activities. The performance budget, officially introduced by the Hoover Commission, was the major contribution of the management orientation. The third stage is reflected in the planning orientation of the new PPB system. It had roots in Keynesian economics and the new technology of systems analysis."
10.2307_973576	1968	"This symposium will stand on its own base. But a word of comment is appropriate. The symposium is based on the Society's 1967 National Conference in San Francisco in several ways. But in the intervening period various things happened to the symposium on the way to the printer. There is no need to tell the story. It is sufficient to observe that all the editors concerned changed professional locations in the interim. Meanwhile, it has been decided to organize much of the annual meeting of the Society for 1968 around intergovernmental interaction topics. So the symposium looks not just retrospectively to San Francisco but prospectively to Boston. Certainly the subject is worthy of all the discussion it can get.-Dwight Waldo, Editor-in-Chief"
10.2307_974042	1970	"This symposium is a product of the Committee on Research in Public Administration of the National Capital Area Chapter. The planning of the symposium, editing of the manuscript, and the drafting of the recommendations was by the Executive Committee: Conley H. Dillon, chairman; Fred R. Brown, E. Winslow Turner, and John M. Thornton, secretary."
10.2307_973926	1966	"The conduct of legislative liaison by offices within executive departments for this particular purpose is a significant new development in policy making. Its impact is increasing, as this trend to consolidate executive representation at the Capitol penetrates executive-legislative sub-system relationships and traditional inter-departmental resolution of competing legislative views. The long run consequences-especially with respect to the airing of conflicting views- may only be guessed at."
10.2307_973843	1963	"This attitude survey of social workers in the Veterans Administration indicates that while social workers express a preference for giving direct service to clients they also showed an inclination towards upward mobility that would remove them from that direct service. Social workers' relationships with other professions were characterized by a strong identification with their own field, plus a special concern about how medical policies affect social work services."
10.2307_973526	1961	"This study of the career lines of the bureau chiefs in the departments of New York City government found a proliferation of career pyramids or specialized channels of promotion. These channels often resulted in a higher interdepartmental than intradepartmental movement where specialist skills continue to be paramount as individuals advance to higher levels. The findings lead to questions about the relevance, in large scale organization, of past discussions of the roles of the generalist and the specialist."
10.2307_973913	1962	"Collective bargaining has become a permanent and pervasive feature of the environment of management in private business. In the public service, however, collective bargaining is a relatively recent phenomenon. The argument over the threat of collective bargaining to the sovereignty of the state generated more heat than light and, as is often the case in theoretical arguments of this kind, has been left in the clouds by the de facto growth of collective bargaining in government. The effect of this growth is to bring the public executive, especially the public personnel executive, face to face with a new set of forces that he will have to try to understand so he can live with the limitations on his freedom to act and grasp the opportunities to improve the effectiveness of his organization. The symposium was arranged and guided by Sterling Spero."
10.2307_973950	1961	"In spite of empirical research and theoretical discussions questioning the value of reorganization, it does occur. One of the more interesting and significant instances was the recent reorganization of the Bureau of Internal Revenue beginning in 1952. This attempt to improve organization operation is still going on as the new Internal Revenue Service continues to try to meet the new problems that have developed and the old problems it inherited. This article describes the reorganization and examines some of the criteria for judging the success or failure of the attempt."
10.2307_973542	1969	"Using his experience as chief of party for a university-based contract team operating under the auspices of the Agency for International Development, the author proposes various points in the USAID-university relationship that appear to require reexamination and reevaluation."
10.2307_973561	1964	"The author argues for improved measures of program performance and costs. Unless these improvements are developed, he says, the relations between aerospace firms and the federal agencies will deteriorate and the potential cost-effectiveness program gains offered by incentive contracts will be lost."
10.2307_973747	1965	"Three conceptions of administrative rationality through which public service professions may justify their efforts are examined by Professor Altshuler. The first, simplest, and politically most reliable in the American environment is the ideal of technical expertness: the capacity to rank alternatives on the basis of scientifically validated and fully routinized procedures. Yet, for reasons discussed, many professions cannot pursue this ideal while remaining true to their raisons d'etre. They do well, the author suggests, to take their bearings from either of two alternative conceptions of rationality. One is general evaluative rationality: the capacity to evaluate means satisfactorily when ends are not clearly or are unambiguously known. The other is inventive rationality: the capacity to widen the range of options open to a political system by redefining problems and conceiving new means for their solution. Both conceptions make political and psychological demands on the professions in public service. They also reflect, Professor Altshuler concludes, differing conceptions of the potential influence and appropriate role of public executives in American society."
10.2307_974209	1973	"Massachusetts invested substantial sums over a three-year period to plan for, and enact sweeping legislation to bring about, a major revamping of its administrative structure and operating systems. Just as the plans were scheduled to become operative, the strong bipartisan support for the undertaking evaporated; the goals were never reached, and the state's government may now be in worse shape than it was before the effort began. This article tells how and why it happened, and what some of the implications are."
10.2307_973310	1964	"Challenging going conceptions of the generalist administrator, the author cites both competent British observers and personal research into the activities of the British European Airways as evidence of the generalist's inadequacy in making the sophisticated fiscal decisions required in the modern industrial state. He finds the performance and attitudes of the traditionally educated and motivated British Administrative Class to be characterized by technical innocence, resistance to the scientific approach in management, and a casual attitude toward research."
10.2307_975095	1974	"Mobility of personnel is not a panacea for organizational rigidity or institutional status quo-ism. In the search for the elusive temporary organization-capable of and eager to innovate and adapt-high rates of personnel mobility may work against organizational change. A case of high mobility was investigated at the Federal Executive Institute. Findings suggest that the existing institutional equilibrium tends to be reinforced when mobility is the primary means employed to seek temporariness. While mobility may be a significant piece of an organizational strategy designed to create the Temporary Society, other approaches must be tried along with it."
10.2307_973899	1963	"This selection, submitted by a contributor who will be anonymous, is designed in part to bring a light touch to the pages of the Review and in part to raise the serious question of whether an intermittent publication of a ""Dear Aspy"" page, in response to genuine questions raised by puzzled administrators, might not be a useful way to raise to the level of visibility a series of recurring administrative and ethical questions which bother public administrators across the land-and beyond. If this article elicits a number of responses, the Editorial Board of the Review will give serious consideration to making ""Dear Aspy"" a part of the Public Administration Review."
10.2307_974045	1970	"This article is based upon a study entitled ""Achieving More Effective Delivery of HUD Local Assistance Programs,"" which was conducted by the National Academy of Public Administration for the Department of Housing and Urban Development in 1969. The study was designed to uncover facilitating and hindering factors in the decisional and administrative aspects of four HUD-financed local programs: open-space grants, water and sewer facilities grants, Section 221(d)(3) new non-profit housing, and turnkey housing in the cities of Atlanta, Durham, Kansas City, Milwaukee, Seattle, and Philadelphia. To this end, recommendations were developed which could lead to more prompt and effective performance. These recommendations also took into consideration sets of factors which bear upon these programs and specific projects in a less direct manner, i. e., demography, intergovernmental relationships, regional planning, local governmental form and finances, private sector participation, and the civil-rights climate."
10.2307_973742	1965	"We are both partisan (for our districts) and judge (for the nation) at the same time... Maybe this is inconsistent but that's the way it is. In these words a United States Representative characterizes the difficulty faced by members of the House Committee on Science and Astronautics in evaluating technical testimony against a backdrop of lobbying pressure from the districts they represent. Using a two year controversy on the relative merits of solid and liquid propulsion, Professor Kerr concludes that ""congressional attitudes toward the space program are influenced more by politics and conventional interpretations of reality than by engineering facts."" He recommends some form of staff, consultants, or contract research studies to enhance congressional appraisal of scientific programs and diminish present reliance on intuition, predisposition, and faith."
10.2307_973312	1964	"The Ombudsman concept was first examined in the pages of the Review in 1960 when Professor Henry J. Abraham reported the considerable success achieved by the Danish folketingets Ombudsman. He concluded (1) that Denmark possessed the ""kind of social climate that makes possible the existence and operation"" of such a governmental institution and (2) that ""differences between this country [United States] and Denmark,""... ""plus other differences inherent in America's body politic, make it unlikely that an Ombudsman could succeed on the national level in the United States in the foreseeable future."" Until the proposal by U. S. Representative Henry Reuss of an Administrative Counsel similar to the Ombudsman, only legal journals in the United States had given this Swedish innovation much note. In a recent article appearing in the New York Times Magazine section (September 13, 1964), Congressman Reuss outlined the elements of H. R. 7593. In contrast to the Scandinavian ""grievance man"" described by Dr. Albert Rosenthal in his article ""The Ombudsman-Swedish 'Grievance Man',"" Congressman Reuss's Administrative Counsel would deal only with cases presented by members of the U. S. Senate or House. Stating that the average citizen could thus obtain better (i. e., more expert) representation from the Administrative Counsel than from the harassed and harried congressional staff member, the Congressman felt that no legislator would ""weaken his direct relationship with his constituents,"" by establishing ""an independent agency that citizens would approach directly with their complaints."" This, Reuss contended, ""would probably end up as another impersonal bureaucracy."" Sweden has given both the exotic name and the administrative characteristics to the Ombudsman concept. The Ombudsman, who represents all citizens in dealing with the administrative bureaucracy, has given the Swedish people a full comprehension of the expanding role of government without any accompanying element of fear. The importance of the Ombudsman in creating a climate favorable to the development of a ""public philosophy,"" Dr. Rosenthal contends, suggests a prime potential value of an American equivalent. Professor Donald C. Rowat in ""Ombudsmen for North America"" examines the key issue-will the Ombudsman work here, that is, in the United States and Canada. Though agreeing with Representative Reuss that the Ombudsman would provide better citizen guidance than congressional staffs, he does not share the Congressman's reservations that the Ombudsman will produce further bureaucratization and contends that the office should be directly available to the people. The critical issues in the establishment of an American Ombudsman then are: (1) placement within the federal system-and the relationship and responsibility to existing executive, legislative, and judicial agencies, (2) the jurisdictional question of whether citizens would have direct access to the Ombudsman, (3) the impact on Congressional staffing-would an Ombudsman in fact provide citizens with more rapid and expert service than the Administrative Assistants and professional staff of U. S. Senators and Representatives, and (4) the total effect on public servants whose conduct would be open to the penetrating ""over the shoulder"" scrutiny of an officer concerned not only with legality, but with fairness and courtesy in the treatment of people."
10.2307_973573	1968	"This symposium will stand on its own base. But a word of comment is appropriate. The symposium is based on the Society's 1967 National Conference in San Francisco in several ways. But in the intervening period various things happened to the symposium on the way to the printer. There is no need to tell the story. It is sufficient to observe that all the editors concerned changed professional locations in the interim. Meanwhile, it has been decided to organize much of the annual meeting of the Society for 1968 around intergovernmental interaction topics. So the symposium looks not just retrospectively to San Francisco but prospectively to Boston. Certainly the subject is worthy of all the discussion it can get.-Dwight Waldo, Editor-in-Chief"
10.2307_974902	1974	"Knowledge has assumed a new importance in public policy making in the United States, and there is a need for new policies to deal with the management of knowledge. New technological and decision-making uses of information affect not only public policy outcomes, but the public policy process itself. Current knowledge management policies are inadequate, and particular attention must be paid to formulating policies for new information technologies and publicly accessible information."
10.2307_975161	1972	"The art of program planning and evaluation in the public sector has advanced markedly in recent years-but the art of ""getting things done"" has lagged behind in some areas. Here is an article whose merit is strictly on this latter count-how to get action to generate tangible cost-effectiveness benefits in a public agency. Recently, California's Director of Public Works, James A. Moe, organized a cost-effectiveness improvement project in the Division of Bay Toll Crossings. The Division operates and maintains toll bridges throughout California (except the Golden Gate Bridge). The objectives of the project were clear: ""Get at least 300,000 annual savings with no unreasonable reduction in service levels."" Actual results were roughly 900,000 savings per year on this project. The article explains how these results were obtained."
10.2307_973165	1963	The creative function of management manifests itself in productivity growth. Only by developing measures of organizational productivity can we know how well we are performing that creative function. The measures are important not only because of their outcomes but also because they develop an attitude of productivity mindedness which enhances the continuous search for new and more efficient ways and means of doing the job.
10.2307_973381	1963	"You may not agree with the author's recommendations for changes in our political institutions to bring improved policy planning at the national level. You may not think these changes will result in a more tightly organized system for developing national policy. However, you will have to agree that our national survival will depend on the solution of the problems he raises and that his suggestions need serious consideration as a part of the effort to increase effective use of our national resources."
10.2307_974375	1970	"It is likely that highly abstract social indicators for the ""quality of life"" or very broad aspects of it will be presented as aids to decision makers in the near future. The nature of the data available and past experience suggests that such indicators should be viewed with suspicion. This is particularly true when in a desire to augment the data base input statistics are mixed with output statistics. Much more could be learned by working out in some detail the meaning and comparability of less aggregated social statistics, with clear separation of output and input. In some problem areas this approach suggests that commonly held assumptions should be reexamined; refining and communicating the significance of this knowledge should receive a high priority."
10.2307_973640	1964	"The scrutiny of governmental decision making and policy judgments is unceasing. A recent National Academy of Sciences report, for example, criticized the government for technological decisions that did not take cognizance of their impact on the deployment and utilization of scientists and engineers. The total issue is again joined in this symposium which presents some sharply contrasting viewpoints on administration, politics, and social change. Yehezkel Dror of the Hebrew University reexamines the decision making theory of Charles Lindblom's 1959 Review article, finds it wanting where rapid social change is occurring, and presents a new ""normative"" model for policy makers. Lindblom, now with the Department of State, defends his thesis in the context of American political change. Examining both the original Lindblom thesis and the Dror critique, Roger Jones of the Budget Bureau finds practicing administrators to be extremely skeptical of models and ""other prescribed methodology as a road to administrative salvation."" Placing the Lindblom essay in the perspective of public administration as a continuing study, Mickey McCleery of Antioch College finds in it an insightful contrast to the traditional theory of responsible bureaucracy. However, he joins with Jones in doubting the utility of models, and with Heydebrand in noting the philosophical difficulty of accepting what is as what ought to be. A University of Chicago sociologist, Wolf Heydebrand critiques the Dror model and the ""essentially conservative framework"" of Lindblom's argument."
10.2307_973525	1961	"Centralization of data processing activities is not the way to derive the greatest benefits from computers in state government. Computers are now available to fit different levels of work volume and can be applied in a number of different functional fields. The decentralized approach to the introduction of ADP into state government where computers are installed by individual departments may avoid inherent problems of centralization, make the accommodation of work procedures to computer programing less complex, and reduce political opposition to the introduction of automatic data processing."
10.2307_975250	1974	"In the crucially important fields of law enforcement and criminal justice efforts to establish goals, determine program priorities, and evaluate program success encounter grave conceptual and methodological difficulties. Some suggested guides for the Law Enforcement Assistance Administration and its grantees include separation of ""crime reduction goals"" from ""system maintenance goals,"" formulation of both in comprehensive and specific fashion, and priority attention to data systems and to ""diversion"" programs. Evaluation systems should be goal-related, preplanned, quantified when possible, scientifically rigorous in selected cases, comprehensive, and adaptable to local needs. Evaluation, although requiring specialized staff attention, should become an accepted part of program management."
10.2307_973399	1967	"This article presents a survey of high school and college student attitudes toward local, state, and federal government in one Georgia college community. The students were asked to respond to statements about governmental employees on a five-point scale ranging from ""agree"" to ""disagree."" Student attitude responses were related to independent variables such as age, sex, political party preference, nature of home town, academic rank, parental occupation, and income. The findings of this survey indicate that attitudes toward the three levels of government are similar to the findings of earlier studies. The sample with a lower socioeconomic makeup, for example, had a more favorable attitude toward the public service. Other important findings of this survey are as follows: 1. Attitudes changed abruptly between the ages of 18 and 21. 2. Women had generally better attitudes than did men toward the public service. 3. Rural students had a poorer attitude toward all government, particularly local, than did their city-raised student colleagues. 4. Negro respondents had a better attitude toward all levels of government than did whites. 5. Local government consistently received the poorest attitude responses. 6. State government consistently received the most favorable responses."
10.2307_973838	1963	"Very often one of the misconceptions about the administrator's job is that the administrator has very little discretion in the execution of the law. Here is a clear illustration of the discretion the administrator actually has, within the framework of law enforcement administration. Here, also, the author clearly indicates that, more often than not, the real problem lies in the avoidance of the tough job of determining, at the policy level, what goals are to be achieved and then furnishing the wherewithal to achieve those goals."
10.2307_973819	1962	"One of the most confusing aspects of current public administration is the apparent gap between the way practitioners view organization and the way a large number of the teachers and researchers view organization. The wedge between these two points of view seems to be the impact of the findings of the social science research of the past two or three decades on the selection of what factors are important in understanding organization and administration. Presented here is a discussion of this issue by individuals talking to one another, perhaps, across a chasm. The reader can judge whether there actually is a chasm; if so, how deep it is and whether it can be bridged."
10.2307_974005	1965	"Amidst the general depreciation of progress in the social sciences, the author surveys an area where ""we can speak without blushing about our present knowledge""-the examination of administration through decision-making concepts and language."
10.2307_973825	1962	"These articles were given as papers at one of the best attended panels of the 1962 ASPA National Conference which considered an eleven-year-old adolescent, electronic data processing. In what activities is this youth engaged? How rapidly is he maturing? What will he be like when he reaches maturity? How can we guide his growth to maturity? Answers to questions like these, whether in relation to human beings or to an instrument of organization and management, are, at best, educated guesses. The crystal gazing, hard-headed evaluation, and simple descriptions of experience included in this symposium should help us reach those educated guesses. What will we say in ten years? What will be the result of our actions based on these educated guesses: a juvenile delinquent or a useful citizen?"
10.2307_973384	1963	The benefits sought by the program budget may be obtained through the new Department of Defense planning-programming-budgeting system of programming or program packages. The author argues that programming by-passes problems that have frustrated attempts at program budgeting.
10.2307_974107	1969	"Confrontation, accompanied by violence and vandalism, is interfering with the ability of administrators of public institutions to discharge their responsibilities with rationalism and efficiency. Universities, secondary schools, government, and social agencies, in varying forms and degrees, are challenged by the militancy of student, minority, and client activist groups. Some of their demands seem unreasonable and unrealizable, and the methods used appear to leave little room for negotiation or compromise. Under pressure from these militants, and from political and public demands for law and order, public administrators find it difficult to develop a professional, rational, and consistent pattern of response. This paper discusses some of the sociological and psychological effects of organizational conflicts, and suggests some operational principles to guide administrators of public institutions in meeting the confrontation tactics of activist groups."
10.2307_973715	1962	"The basic problem of Federal government management is not that administrators are not being affected by the revolutionary advancements in management tools and techniques. The basic problem, the author argues here, is to overcome the broad deficiency of management knowledge of the elementary concepts of administration. The author identifies some of the weaknesses that impede administration at all levels of management."
10.2307_975154	1972	"Public civil rights agencies moved through three distinct eras since the first agency was established in 1941: the era of prejudice until 1957; discrimination until 1967; and the era of racism since 1967. This article deals with the effects of civil disorder, black militance, and demands for black power and community control on the politics, programs, and personnel of the racial (civil rights) bureaucracy."
10.2307_974020	1965	"The well-known argument as to who subsidizes whom in metropolitan areas is examined in light of fiscal studies of some metropolitan areas. The conclusions are drawn that the problem of subsidization, i. e., unfair distribution of tax burden, is usually overstated, and that reorganization of metropolitan governments could result in increased subsidies."
10.2307_974352	1974	"Funding agencies, both public and private, are continually engaged in selection processes that attempt to distinguish those applicants most likely to succeed. Usually these processes rely upon some form of expert judgment. This article describes and evaluates the Department of Housing and Urban Development's procedures for selecting 75 cities from among the 193 applicants for first-round funding in the Model Cities Program. This selection process, called the Planning Grant Review Project (PGRP), involved the review and rating of all applications by federal staff from the various agencies expected to participate in Model Cities projects. The assumption underlying this process is that, within the bounds of political constraints, expert judgments by federal staff could distinguish those applicants most likely to achieve Model Cities Program objectives. The PGRP ratings given to applicants that were selected for funding are correlated with a series of outcome measures that reflect the cities' performance during the planning year and the first action year. The results indicate that PGRP ratings generally were not associated with levels of performance, except with regard to citizen participation in planning. An alternative selection procedure is illustrated. The latent functions of multi-judgmental selection processes, such as PGRP, are analyzed."
10.2307_973894	1963	"In executive development programs, in contacts with consultants, and in the literature of public administration the public executive is more and more coming face-to-face with attempts to apply the results of research on small groups. In this article the author gives a much needed assist to the public executive as he attempts to answer questions about how much we know about small group behavior and how that knowledge may have implications for the problems that beset the public executive."
10.2307_974007	1965	"From the legacy of Wilson and the works of Charles Beard, the author traces the evolution of the study of public administration within the university establishment. The existence of diverse organization for university teaching of public administration is attributed to the lack of a compelling logic in our knowledge of administrative behavior. An integrative generic concept is advocated for the future."
10.2307_973298	1966	"The underlying ideas, rationale, and language of PPBS are incisively described with a view, particularly, to distinguishing it from earlier management systems. The author shows very clearly the practitioner's concern with a viable, sharp-edged tool for defining priorities and evaluating accomplishment."
10.2307_975159	1972	"The increasing concern of students about societal problems can be channeled and utilized effectively through a work-experience program coordinated by public agencies and the universities. All parties will benefit: the work-study experience will enable students to focus energies constructively to bring about change in public sector operations. Public managers will be stimulated to question their policies, methods of implementation, and suggestions for innovations. The programs proposed will provide a valuable exchange of ideas among all ASPA members, between educational and public practitioners, and between established and potential public servants."
10.2307_974668	1971	"The design of a program structure to provide a framework within which all the purposes of the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare might be systematically ordered is described. The advantages of such a framework, as well as the problem of its design, are discussed. Construction of a program structure for the health purposes of the Department is used as an example. The health program structure is compared with similar efforts in education and in defense. The problem of organizational interests, resulting in ""political redundancy"" in the program structure, is mentioned. Finally, the actual and potential benefits of thinking about federal programs, in both defense and nondefense agencies, by means of such a framework are discussed."
10.2307_973837	1963	"Fragmented action and policies affecting natural resources and human environment have brought waste and confusion in their train and are a result of the lack of recognition of environment as a general subject for public action. The human and historical reasons for this, though strong, can be overcome. However, to change this behavior, to obtain integrated planning and action, and to get coordination among the agencies and policies affecting environment a new policy focus will be required. What is this new policy focus? Does it imply environmental administration?"
10.2307_973762	1968	"The military career in the United States has a tradition of being honorable and socially accepted. However, recent changes, both in the large society and the military services, may have considerably reduced the attractiveness of the military profession. The author discusses indications that the Defense Department may be encountering considerable difficulty retaining personnel in the armed services. He then briefly explores the theoretical models suggested by Amitai Etzioni and Chris Argyris which address the problem of personnel commitment to organization. Finally, the discussion focuses on the usefulness of these theoretical models for analyzing the Defense Department's problem and understanding their reaction to it."
10.2307_973718	1962	"The growing and tremendous need of the Federal government for outstanding college graduates is the basic assumption on which the experimental intern program described in this article is based. The program was designed with the idea that a substantial work experience by college seniors, men and women, would develop in them a greater awareness and appreciation of the challenge offered in the Federal government. Of course, the same things may be said for state and local government and the program is equally feasible at those levels."
10.2307_973940	1962	"This comparison of middle managers in business and in the Federal government on measures of their motivation to achieve, to affiliate with others, and to seek power leads the author to the conclusion that the academic and popular images of the modern civil servant show some serious distortions."
10.2307_974647	1972	"Program evaluation research has emerged from and contributed to attempts to depoliticize federal domestic policy making and administration, and the failures of evaluation research in recent years can be explained in large part as a consequence of the researchers' attempts to respond to divergent and conflicting political and technical imperatives. The imperatives of experimental social research methodology have been no match for the complex and elusive objectives and processes of the social action and economic development programs to which evaluation requirements have been attached. The political controversy over federal program impacts has, in some quarters, consequently been softened into a more technical discussion of ""social experiments"" and of the adequacy of evaluation researchers' methodology."
10.2307_974667	1971	"Organization Development (OD) is an application of behavioral science knowledge that provides managers a technology for managing change in their organization. This paper describes the identifying characteristics of OD and relates these characteristics to managerial problems. It portrays OD as a collaborative process produced when managers combine their intimate knowledge of the organization with the technology of consultants. Several examples illustrate opportunities for applying OD technology and a case details the diagnostic phase of OD, illustrating how managers and consultants use their complementary skills to reach a more accurate understanding of the organization."
10.2307_973839	1963	"Technological developments in recent years have brought increased demands upon the fixed radio spectrum bringing a shortage of frequencies available for assignment to private and governmental organizations alike. As a result interest in the proper management of this natural resource has heightened and attention is being drawn to such problems of telecommunications management as dual control over the assignment of frequencies, the coordination of government users, and the special needs of defense agencies."
10.2307_974006	1965	"Education in public administration has been strongly influenced by Leonard D. White's text, Introduction to the Study of Public Administration, the first edition of which was published in 1926. The author traces the theoretical issues of public administration through the four editions of the Introduction into the administrative histories which were White's final work. Many important aspects of White's thought are analyzed-the partial intellectual genesis of his formulations in Frank Goodnow's writings at the turn of the century, the four assumptions which were the foundation of White's work and of the discipline of public administration, are analyzed, exposing problems of relationship that White never fully resolved. Storing finds in White's administrative histories a style of scholarship for resolving these problems. Using these formulations, other scholars may find differing approaches to the dilemma of identifying the theoretical assumptions that underly public administration as a field of inquiry."
10.2307_973827	1962	"These articles were given as papers at one of the best attended panels of the 1962 ASPA National Conference which considered an eleven-year-old adolescent, electronic data processing. In what activities is this youth engaged? How rapidly is he maturing? What will he be like when he reaches maturity? How can we guide his growth to maturity? Answers to questions like these, whether in relation to human beings or to an instrument of organization and management, are, at best, educated guesses. The crystal gazing, hard-headed evaluation, and simple descriptions of experience included in this symposium should help us reach those educated guesses. What will we say in ten years? What will be the result of our actions based on these educated guesses: a juvenile delinquent or a useful citizen?"
10.2307_973287	1967	"In March of 1966, President Johnson delegated broad authority to the Secretary of State to manage the overseas activities of the United States, with the exception of those under area military command. The necessary interdepartmental organization for the exercise of this authority was established and is functioning. The author describes that organization and analyzes what the functioning of the new structure entails. He traces its evolution from World War II days and gives the rationale for its form and procedure. Finally, some pitfalls and possible shortcomings of the machinery established are suggested, together with the apparent advantages it possesses."
10.2307_973842	1963	"The ""how-to-do-it"" aspects of university courses in public administration are being de-emphasized in favor of subject matter that stresses broad organizational theory and anthropological, sociological, and psychological aspects of organizational behavior. How valuable are these materials, the author asks, unless we obtain more detailed knowledge about how governmental employees do, in fact, behave? How much can we generalize the findings from non-governmental organizations to human behavior in governmental organizations?"
10.2307_974126	1968	"The author asserts that the Atomic Energy Commission's $300 million 200 BEV ""atom smasher"" now under construction near Chicago is the first genuine national scientific laboratory developed in this country. He bases the contention on the fact that the accelerator is being constructed and will be operated by the Universities Research Association, Inc. (URA). The article traces the procedure whereby the National Academy of Sciences and the AEC aided 46 universities in creating URA. Since the federal scientific establishment views URA's management of the accelerator as a ""test case"" for future operation of high-cost scientific installations, the author concludes that failure of the consortium would diminish the role of universities in directing American science."
10.2307_975094	1974	"This article argues for some new directions in policy analysis and organization theory. It notes that a fundamental aspect of all organizations are the kinds of inquiring or information activities in which they typically engage and support. Very different kinds of organizations and theories of organization are needed to support some fundamentally different kinds of inquiring or policy analysis activities. Above all, the article argues for an integrated whole systems perspective of organization theory, and particularly, a whole systems perspective with respect to a program of research on organization theory and its relation to policy analysis."
10.2307_973647	1964	"The use of citizen advisory committees has been encouraged by legislative requirements in urban renewal and other areas of public policy. While finding many communication advantages in its use, the author concludes that advisory committees do not constitute a final answer to the growing problem of the alienation of significant segments of the citizenry from the processes of government."
10.2307_973383	1963	"The author of this article believes that government agencies cannot do much to improve public recognition of their accomplishments. According to his interpretation of the findings reported in this piece, Americans prefer to believe their government is bureaucratic, lazy, and authoritarian. They want to be able to criticize this authority."
10.2307_974565	1973	"Public bureaucracies are inflexible and inadequate problem solvers because they are not scientific enough. The proper application of scientific principles to management reinforces the Weberian concept of bureaucratic administration as the exercise of control on the basis of knowledge. Within this perspective, the cardinal function of bureaucratic administration is to prevent and correct errors. Accordingly, they must be concerned with rules of adequate solution, not rituals of authority. Two classic devices in public administration, the pre-audit and the post-audit, are represented here as analytic instruments capable of error detection with respect to policy making, planning, and programming. Policies are reinterpreted as the equivalent of theories; plans as models; programs as experiments - in the interest of displacing rationalization by verification, and establishing the spirit of criticism as the essential property of a scientifically managed organization."
10.2307_973284	1967	"Public agencies have kept pace with business organizations in utilizing the laboratory approach as a vehicle for organization change. The author describes the laboratory approach and analyzes its limitations, bias, goals and techniques, consistency with broad features of organization life, and inadequacies as a vehicle of organization change."
10.2307_973938	1962	"Will you have more than a bare subsistence income when you retire? According to this article, one of the most important sources of increased income to the civil service retirement funds is not being exploited. The author looks at the investment policies employed in the investment of most civil service retirement funds. He identifies some of the problems causing restrictive investment practices and some of the changes that must be made to increase the productivity of accumulated invested assets."
10.2307_973665	1966	"The increasing burden of municipal investment needs in metropolitan areas has               resulted in growing demands for massive federal aid and metropolitan-wide municipal               cooperation. On the other hand, it has been argued that individual municipalities               generally cannot be expected willingly to surrender their autonomy. The author               examines the integrated system which has been created in Belgium to provide a high               degree of municipal political and economic decision-making autonomy, pronounced               central government responsibility for local public investment finance, and a central               organization through which local authorities cooperate with one another and with the               central government, with a view to determining whether the Belgian experience has               relevance for the U. S."
10.2307_974016	1965	"In both the developed and the underdeveloped countries of the world, rational planning for economic change is a matter of the liveliest interest. The author here explores the study of those processes by which national governments undertake to carry out their planning responsibilities."
10.2307_973228	1970	"As an abstract concept, the public interest is highly subject to value interpretations by resource administrators and agencies through brokerage politics and professionalism. Resource administrators may seek a halo effect for creating a special environment to make value decisions based on a professional image. Yet values of administrators are limited by education, personality, and experience as well as agency indoctrination and ideology. Agency definitions and prescriptions of the public interest reflect agency ideology of preservation and expansion as well as a favored interest and its clientele, e. g., U. S. Forest Service-lumber industry. Alternatives for values, with the intention of contributing to the wisdom of the value formation process in the search for the public interest are considered. (a) Professional education: a recommendation is made for more courses in humanities and social sciences for value exposure in resource curriculums; (b) Committees and consultants: committees should be recognized as value decision bodies for a particular resource with consequent departures from resource experts per se. Nontechnical individuals with some resource familiarity should be utilized more fully for prescribing the social ends of the public interest to administrators; (c) True public relations: propaganda and public relations techniques are used by agencies to dictate the public interest for agency and clientele benefit. Public information should be an objective with facts and alternatives. (d) Comprehensive formulas: present formulas are based on economics and numbers of people with little consideration of intangible and quality values. A comprehensive formula should be oriented at utility with an equal level for intangibles and quality."
10.2307_973562	1964	The transfer of technical skills is a key to the social and economic progress of developing nations. The author here examines the complex process of programming the transfer to make maximum use of the limited resources for this type of aid.
10.2307_974044	1970	"This is a survey of the public policy and institutional reaction to the environmental ""crisis."" It discusses the various types of environmental problems and threats, viewing them as part of the current backlash against the harmful byproducts of technology. Some of the emerging concepts in this quest for an improved quality of life, such as environmental systems, spaceship earth, and recycling, are analyzed. Legislative and Executive responses are reviewed and the inadequacies of administrative theory detailed. Future research areas, such as the innovating role of interest groups and the courts, are suggested."
10.2307_975021	1971	"Massachusetts began to implement a new top-level cabinet administrative structure on April 30, 1971, with nine new secretaries placed over nearly 200 agencies in the executive branch. To provide the secretaries with workable tools for information and control, a new program-based management system has been developed and is being successfully piloted. Though its ultimate objectives are the same as PPBS, the approach and methodology differ markedly. Results to date seem encouraging, particularly as regards understanding and acceptance of the system by operating managers."
10.2307_973664	1966	"The public executive needs education that will help him to clarify his expectations,               increase their rationality, and prepare him generally for what is to come. Although               many disciplines may be helpful, the author believes that public administration and               political science have a special obligation to develop programs adapted to the needs               of the executive in a time of great change. He describes herein a seminar developed to               fit such a purpose."
10.2307_974081	1968	"Cost accounting is a primary financial information base for planning, programming, budgeting systems. Yet, because of PPB's unique output-oriented approach to evaluating programs, cost data cannot be gathered directly for PPB purposes. Cost data must be gathered at operating levels in terms of work that is done and events which occur at those levels in order to be useful to responsible operating managers. Then, cost data must be manipulated, in accordance with established accounting principles and techniques, to present it in forms appropriate for PPB's particular kind of analysis and evaluation. Departments and agencies must adhere to established cost accounting doctrine, the principles of the Comptroller General, and statutory requirements, and through those means meet the data requirements of PPB. Otherwise, PPB, from a cost accounting standpoint, can result in the creation of systems which are in conflict with controlling accounting doctrine and requirements."
10.2307_973717	1962	"In evaluating the progress in the application of ADP to the problems of personnel management in the Federal government, the author identifies a number of the barriers and fears that block the full utilization of this powerful tool, the electronic computer. His observations indicate that while some progress is being made a new mental revolution on the part of the personnel managers is needed."
10.2307_974213	1973	"The incidence of collective bargaining between salaried professionals and management at all levels of the public service has increased greatly in recent years. One of the most difficult issues which has confronted the parties to bargaining as well as legislative bodies is that of defining the appropriate subject matter for collective negotiations and those matters to be decided through other mechanisms. In general, employee organizations seek to expand the scope of negotiations; management seeks to retain as many issues as possible for purely managerial decision. This article is an inquiry into the roots of the scope of the negotiations problem among professionals in the public sector. Its central proposition is that there is embodied in the idea of professionalism a logic which imposes on those occupations which aspire to professional standards or are already characterized by them pressure for a broad and flexible approach to determination of appropriate subjects for the bargaining table."
10.2307_974567	1973	"Social reporting is any attempt to quantifiably analyze data concerned with demographic states or service activity. Service impact studies can numerically evaluate program formulation, results, efficiency, equity, or marginality. Although social indicators are very useful in defining need areas and highlighting service gaps, their interpretive limitations are very great. It has proven extremely difficult to extrapolate figures into the future, numerically calculate program impact, or isolate causality. Because this is so, great care should be used in operationalizing the data involved. Indicator studies may also fail to correctly depict the surveyed population, either through collection error or inability of the target group to be surveyed. Unwise promulgation of certain data may lead to undesirable ramifications on other program areas, resulting in shifts in social states or necessitating readjustments in the collection process. While social reporting is a valuable tool, the practitioner should bear in mind the limitations which exist and which could reflect upon the validity of his evaluative judgments."
10.2307_974786	1973	"A framework is offered for organizing efforts at systematic, empirical theory building in public administration. It uses as an empirical referrant public organizations and their analytically defined policy subsystems. Public organizations are characterized as engaging in external political exchanges in order to secure legitimacy and basic ""life-support."" They are also viewed as engaging in external economic exchanges to secure low-cost raw materials, and means of production and distribution. Internally public organizations can be analytically divided into polity and economy. Polity encompasses activities and behavior relating to the development and definition of agency purpose, including: cadre recruitment and socialization, monitoring the environment, and internal economy and harmonizing the two. Internal economy encompasses those phenomena and activities that relate to effective task accomplishment, including: division of work and responsibilities, allocation of resources, and maintenance of an incentive system. Hopefully such a framework can unify the fractionated field and move us toward systematic empirical theory."
10.2307_975249	1974	"The fallacy of appellation is a defect in budget deliberations, in which the name of an account or program is confused with the activities generally associated with that name. The fallacy, which is inherent to program budgeting, is built on two incorrect assumptions: first, that a government cannot engage in an activity unless dollars are ""earmarked"" for the activity, and second, that having dollars ""earmarked"" guarantees that they will be used for the purpose identified in the account name. Because pure budgeting-by-objective is neither theoretically possible nor practically desirable, budget makers must be vigilant in detecting fallacies of appellation and exposing them in budget debates."
10.2307_974903	1974	"This article outlines the basic provisions of a model policy which can be adopted by local governments to regulate the collection, storage, use, and dissemination of information in order to protect privacy while assuring that legitimate public access to government records is available. A scheme for classifying the various types of information and specifying an appropriate degree of access to each type is presented, and an organizational structure to regulate access according to that scheme is discussed."
10.2307_973398	1967	"The author provides a systematic theoretical statement which attempts a reasonable approximation of the reality of organization and public administration and a helpful outline of various familiar phenomena within that field. The statement formulates a concept of enterprise as a particular activity of a group of persons engaged in providing a product or rendering a service to our society. It is suggested that in the analysis of an enterprise a clear distinction be drawn between its two principal components: operations and administration. The operations of an enterprise entail an output and a work process. Administration encompasses the management of resources and the techniques of direction necessary to insure that the operations of an enterprise realize their intended output. The concepts of authority, responsibility, hierarchy, leadership, and power structure are explained within the framework of this theoretical statement."
10.2307_973299	1966	"The integration of systems of planning, programming, budgeting and accounting, within a complex organization, has long been an ideal of public administration. Of the many obstacles to integration, the absence of a common language, a common basis for gathering and presenting data, has been paramount. The budgeteer speaks in the language of executive and congressional budget review. The accountant speaks of journals, ledgers, and specialized reports. The planners and programmers also have their own and less disciplined or rigid language. New systems, such as the Bureau of the Budget's Planning, Programming and Budgeting, impose an entirely new language on the existing systems. Yet, the basic data for each is fundamentally the same, and only the forms of expression, presentation, and analysis change. A Management Accounts Structure can provide a common framework for all systems, and thus achieve continuity of data processing and presentation through each phase of the integrated system."
10.2307_974022	1965	"The developing states of West Africa require, as do all such states, a well-trained professional civil service, for which both professional and ethical standards are high and clearly understood. Yet the politics of independence works, in great degree, against the existence of such a civil service."
10.2307_973167	1963	"Inadvertent planning, consisting of decisions made by power holders outside the visible public sector, in large part is the result of advice from experts, technicians, and advisors whose position in relation to the private sector of the power structure is similar to that of the planner to the public sector. Since it is difficult to reach the many individuals in the private sector who make decisions affecting the future of the city, it is up to the planner to educate this intermediary group, the lawyer, the engineer, and the real estate broker, to help them bring inadvertent planning decisions in line with public policy. At the least, the planner should be aware of the social problems of the community and not enhance these problems through unconscionable physical planning."
10.2307_973952	1961	"The public relations function may be of unequal importance in different types of organizations due to limitations resulting from the number and kind of publics, the degree of constraints on policy-making discretion, and inadequate reporting of information from the employee at the point of contact between the organization and its publics to the policy-making centers of the organization. The public relations needs of a local unemployment compensation office are examined as a case study and show that whatever public relations problems appear are centered around the customer-employee relationship where the employee is the key figure."
10.2307_973806	1965	"The specialist-generalist controversy can be differently framed. Using the performance of nursing services as a basis for analysis, the author contrasts traditional and unorthodox patterns of organization and shows that ""even simple variations in ways of organizing work can significantly affect the relative merits of generalist and specialist roles."" The adoption of a specific organizational structure is shown to strongly influence total performance and the development of supervisory capacity, and Professor Golembiewski finds significant managerial advantage in the unorthodox pattern and its generalist bias."
10.2307_973760	1968	"This essay utilizes a simple dichotomous market model drawn from economic theory to analyze the emergence of administrative corruption. The paper argues that the ideal-type of modern bureaucracy posits a system analogous to the mandatory pricing system of market economics, while corrupt bureaucratic systems more resemble the free market. In the latter model prices are determined by supply and demand, rather than by fixed schedules prescribed and enforced by some central authority. On the economic market when a government attempts to maintain the mandatory pricing system but finds that supply and demand are greatly out of balance, there is the likelihood of the emergence of a free market system regardless of official intentions. The result has come to be called the ""black market."" In some settings, under certain circumstances one may similarly find the emergence of ""black-market bureaucracy."" The author suggests what some of these circumstances might be and concludes with some observations and questions about the control of this kind of bureaucratic black marketeering, its utility in economic and political development, and its future in the underdeveloped world."
10.2307_973897	1963	"The budgeting function in the states is in a period of transition, according to the author of this article. On the basis of research including among other things personal interviews in fourteen states, the author found changes occurring in the concept of the budget process, in the roles of the participants in the budget process, and in the type of staff performing the budget functions."
10.2307_973716	1962	"Examination in this article of the status, powers, manner of appointment and operation of the burgomaster raises some basic questions about commonly accepted assumptions surrounding the city manager idea in the United States. While there are, of course, great differences between the city manager and the burgomaster, the success of The Netherlands experience does pose a challenge to our assumption that the city manager must be appointed by and responsible to the local legislative body, that he must be nonpartisan, and that he must have undivided administrative authority."
10.2307_973895	1963	"With the tremendous growth in the population of metropolitan areas in the United States, and with the corresponding increase in joint federal-local programs, there is an ever-growing need for adequate data as an aid to local and regional decision making. Examining the scope and nature of recent changes in the modern city, the problems stemming from these changes, and the kinds of data needed to solve these problems, the author proposes a modern statistical program that avoids the pitfalls confronting most data gathering and suggests steps through which the Federal government can help municipal and regional bodies to develop a modern statistical intelligence system."
10.2307_973939	1962	"The authors report recent research on the backgrounds of 7,640 Federal career civil servant executives at the GS-14 level and above and compare them with other types of Federal executives and with big business leaders. The data presented here shed light on questions of level of entry, career lines, and representative bureaucracy in the Federal government."
10.2307_973775	1961	"The author, an economist and management consultant, suggests global productivity analysis as an additional means for examining and controlling organization operations in federal, state, and local government, where global productivity refers to the calculation of output per unit of input for the whole of the organization. He reports the findings on global productivity in government to date and illustrates his argument with a ""do-it-yourself"" case."
10.2307_973761	1968	"This paper discusses the various techniques which public officials utilize to issue information to the press. It also generates hypotheses comparing executive officials, legislative leaders, and agency heads in their use of the several techniques. In general, administrators are rather sharply set off from other officials-primarily by their limited flexibility in generating publicity. The paper suggests a number of reasons why this might be the case, including reporters' news definitions and news practices, the nature of administrative work, and administrators' view that they are limited in their ability to get attention in the press and their desire at times to avoid publicity."
10.2307_973666	1966	"The importance of the relationships between the President and the bureaus has long               been recognized. It is the bureaus which, in large part, carry out Presidential policy               directives. How, in a President's crowded schedule, can he fit in meetings with Bureau               Chiefs, and what would a President discuss in these meetings? Although Presidents will               answer these questions for themselves, the author suggests that the time has arrived               for a renewal of close relationships."
10.2307_973316	1964	A new and immutable law of decision making is here propounded. SG=W/L
10.2307_973818	1962	"One of the most confusing aspects of current public administration is the apparent gap between the way practitioners view organization and the way a large number of the teachers and researchers view organization. The wedge between these two points of view seems to be the impact of the findings of the social science research of the past two or three decades on the selection of what factors are important in understanding organization and administration. Presented here is a discussion of this issue by individuals talking to one another, perhaps, across a chasm. The reader can judge whether there actually is a chasm; if so, how deep it is and whether it can be bridged."
10.2307_973574	1968	"This symposium will stand on its own base. But a word of comment is appropriate. The symposium is based on the Society's 1967 National Conference in San Francisco in several ways. But in the intervening period various things happened to the symposium on the way to the printer. There is no need to tell the story. It is sufficient to observe that all the editors concerned changed professional locations in the interim. Meanwhile, it has been decided to organize much of the annual meeting of the Society for 1968 around intergovernmental interaction topics. So the symposium looks not just retrospectively to San Francisco but prospectively to Boston. Certainly the subject is worthy of all the discussion it can get.-Dwight Waldo, Editor-in-Chief"
10.2307_973805	1965	"Natural, political, and organizational obstacles-all had to be overcome in the planning and construction of the Turkey-Iran-Pakistan Telecommunications Project built under the aegis of the Central Treaty Organization (CENTO). From the macro issue of the appropriate role for an international agency, to the micro, but still vital pressures of U. S. private firms, the author treats issues of technical assistance and comparative administration in the 1956-1964 course of events which have today ""created a physically visible symbol of practical regional cooperation."""
10.2307_973746	1965	"Is there an operational definition of administrative loyalty? Loyalty, Mr. Miles says, is the ""single most important factor in the adaptability of the career bureaucracy to political leadership,"" it involves the career official's obligations of explanation, opposition, and adaptation. But what if adaptation is impossible? What if the identification of the career man and a departmental program is so strong that he cannot make a ""graceful shift"" to the policies of a new Administration or Secretary? Mr. Miles outlines his answer and explains why he feels that administrative loyalty has deteriorated during his thirty years in the Federal service and how adaptability can be made ""operational,"" the career service more responsive to the ebb and flow of political fortune."
10.2307_974306	1973	It is frequently assumed that large-scale police forces are necessary to enable departments to specialize and professionalize. It is also assumed that large-scale agencies are more efficient and thus able to produce the same or higher levels of output at lower costs than smaller departments. This study empirically examines these two basic assumptions in six neighborhoods within one metropolitan area. The findings do not support the basic assumptions made above and thus underline the importance of further empirical research related to the effect of size on the output of police agencies.
10.2307_974127	1968	"The study is of intentions of planning personnel and the communication channels they employ in order to use priority recommendations for trying to bring about social-service changes. The staff of a community planning council studied used priority recommendations most often for emphasizing matters of agency policy and much less frequently for presenting factual information. Priority recommendations were used primarily by council staff members. Priority recommendations regarding policy matters were most often made with other council staff, and in direct intervention attempts with other agencies. On the other hand, half of the recommendations used indirectly with such agencies (especially through the medium of documents and letters) were utilized in order to present factual data. Nearly half of all policy utilizations were made for purposes of direct intervention within decision-making processes of various target agencies. The findings suggest that different communication channels may be compatible with different community work role models. Utilizations for presenting factual information are seen as typical of the guide role. Indirect attempts to influence policy decisions are more in line with the functioning of the enabler. Finally, direct participation in decision-making processes seems typical of the intervenor who intends to make reforms possible."
10.2307_973759	1968	"The article presents a technique that enables management-level personnel to gain a clearer understanding of actual structure patterns in their organizations. It is intended to be used in training programs dealing with the perception of adjustive organizational behavior and the effect of such behavior on administrative processes. The technique compares an organization's formal structure with subformal patterns based on advice and order relationships. These relationships are determined from the analysis of answers given in response to a questionnaire administered by class participants in their respective organizations. After tabulating the questionnaire responses, the relationships are then plotted on organization charts. In practice the technique has proved highly successful in relating general organizational theory to the participants' specific environments."
10.2307_973560	1964	The relationship between administrative structure and methods and the achievement of objectives has been a central preoccupation in public administration. The author here presents evidence from a four-year research study to show the superiority of certain administrative methods and structure in achieving the goals of urban renewal and relocation.
10.2307_974123	1968	"Students of organizations first attacked the theory, and later the continued existence, of organizations with a formal allocation of authority. In the 1940's the classical organization theory was condemned as culture-bound and unscientific. In the 1960's some students are claiming that hierarchical organizations will soon be supplanted by other forms. Other students of organization defend the classical theory as relevant on the grounds that it is embedded in the culture. To test that hypothesis, a culture trait questionnaire, based on the principles of organization, was administered to various age groups from fourth grade to graduate school level. The data indicate that for children of suburban, middle-class background, the trait is well-established by age 14. The factors creating this culture trait, and the implications of its existence for the elimination of hierarchical organizations, are considered."
10.2307_974150	1967	"School administrators are now challenged by militant teacher organizations demanding responsible roles in the decision-making processes of local education. Examination of the doctrines of educational administration and the attitudes of leaders of teacher groups reveals major elements in the controversy over the extent and nature of teacher participation, the character of organizational involvement, and the manner in which differences are resolved. The author notes significant behavioral patterns in administrator-teacher relations."
10.2307_973385	1963	"This article illustrates how a small community was able to coordinate the efforts of county, state and Federal agencies and voluntary citizen groups to solve community problems. The authors believe the case study identifies some of the significant ingredients of successful coordination."
10.2307_974353	1974	"One of the most recent, and perhaps controversial, public sector impasse resolution methods to be operationalized is final offer arbitration. While this method has received much publicity, most of the published writings about it have been speculative and seem to have assumed that final offer systems are alike. Using the final offer experiences in Eugene, Oregon, as a data base (Eugene has had more experience with final offer arbitration than any other city), the authors demonstrate that a wide variety of final offer systems can be constructed. Because of their preference for negotiated rather than imposed settlements, the authors present the normative position that each component of any final offer system should be shaped to increase the incentive to bargain (or conversely, decrease the incentive to arbitrate) within the boundaries of protecting the rights and interests of both sides."
10.2307_974646	1972	"A current deficiency of the analysis of public policy issues by governmental agencies is the slighting of political implications. Analysis should lead to policies that can be implemented, and the study of political feasibility is one way of bridging the gap between the desirable and the possible. Yet one reason that analysts have not considered political feasibility in their studies is the lack of a convenient methodology. As a beginning, a list of categories are suggested that could lead to the mapping of the politics of policy alternatives. These categories include the identification of actors, their beliefs and motivations, resources, and the sites of their interactions. The difficulty of integrating political implications with analytical procedures is explored, and the requirement for anticipatory research is stressed."
10.2307_975093	1974	"Based upon one year's experience with the planned variation known as CERC, chief executive review and comment, the City of Rochester may indicate a preview of the shifts local communities will make in responding to the New Federalism. The experience in Rochester to date can lead to the hypotheses that: (a) informal federal grant application procedures may survive more formal shifts in procedure, (b) partialization of policy (exempting state pass through and state generated program funds) emasculates the intent of that policy, (c) the transition period between categorical and non-categorical aid to local communities renders both systems ineffective, and (d) updated management procedures may be the most significant product of New Federalism. The above hypotheses are derived from a descriptive analysis of the CERC program in Rochester, New York."
10.2307_973823	1962	"These articles were given as papers at one of the best attended panels of the 1962 ASPA National Conference which considered an eleven-year-old adolescent, electronic data processing. In what activities is this youth engaged? How rapidly is he maturing? What will he be like when he reaches maturity? How can we guide his growth to maturity? Answers to questions like these, whether in relation to human beings or to an instrument of organization and management, are, at best, educated guesses. The crystal gazing, hard-headed evaluation, and simple descriptions of experience included in this symposium should help us reach those educated guesses. What will we say in ten years? What will be the result of our actions based on these educated guesses: a juvenile delinquent or a useful citizen?"
10.2307_975155	1972	"The course of welfare reform legislation in the Congress has been marked by controversy. Debate in the Senate, where the current bill now rests, will be heated. This article analyzes the reasons for the persistence of the controversy with particular emphasis on the bills before the 91st and the 92nd Congress. Among the many issues in the administrative area this legislation raises, four are selected for discussion: the adequacy of the benefits as related to the organizational structure; the safeguards placed in the bill to purge the rolls, in advance, of all ineligible persons; the effectiveness of integrating the work and training program with the benefit program; and the possible approaches the program will take to letting the people know of their benefit rights. The conclusions are that those administering the program will encounter serious difficulties. Some of these are avoidable. Acceptance of the need for a higher level of benefit would simplify the tasks of administration; excessive concern with precise eligibility and payment is burdening the program with administrative complications; the separation of the eligible group between employables and the unemployables is not a natural division. Difficult as it may be to accept for a welfare program, it is essential that the program actively seek out all eligible persons."
10.2307_975158	1972	"This paper is the first chapter of a book on U. S. federal resource allocation in the field of outdoor recreation. Line-item budgeting turned out to be sensitive politically but did not lead to analysis of agency activities. Program budgeting was politically insensitive but did not lead to evaluation either. This turned attention to the question of why organizations resist evaluation. The thesis of the article is that evaluation is primarily an organizational problem. The needs of the organization and the people within it conflict with the desire to continuously monitor activities and change policies when they are found wanting. By considering how an organization whole-heartedly devoted to evaluation might function, and how people might survive whose major purpose was to maintain resources and objectives in a creative tension, the article suggests that it will be difficult to marry evaluation and organization. The article includes suggestions for bringing together substantive evaluation of policy and the imperatives of organizational life. But the degree of trust among social groups is seen as a critical regulator facilitating or depressing evaluation and conditioning the uses to which it is put."
10.2307_975113	1973	"Bureaucratic need accounts for the volume of details on the inner workings of government published in the American press. Officials engaging in intragovernmental politicking to achieve the policy outcomes they desire exploit the press tactically. Press maneuvers can satisfy an array of bureaucratic objectivs from altering the information officials have in making decisions to affecting the state of play in intra-governmental bargaining by determining who gets involved in a decision and how procedurally the decision gets made. In using the press, the maneuvering official faces a choice both of medium and of channel. Audience and accessibility are crucial to the choice of channel: both favor print media over broadcast. The choice of channel - among press release, press conference, background briefing, and leak - is usually a function of the official's rank and whether or not his policy stand comports with the administration's; but many tactical objectives can best be accomplished only through covert channels of disclosure."
10.2307_975022	1971	"This article discusses the desirability of locating a state or city information retrieval system at the university to be used jointly by on-line government agencies, top policy makers for budgeting and planning, and university scholars for their own or state contracted research. The potential advantages and dangers of such a partnership are discussed from four viewpoints-that of the university, the government, the scholar, and the public. Suggestions are made concerning the politics of knowledge and the type of organizational arrangement which would be most advantageous to all concerned."
10.2307_975246	1974	"This essay uses Stanley's ""natural hypothesis"" that previous executive service would be good preparation for higher political executive posts. Three previous political executive appointments taught Dean Acheson the role of a presidential adviser, personal survival, programmatic expertise, and the control of administration through appointments. This prior experience strengthened Secretary of State Acheson as a programmatic executive in foreign policy, but failed to develop his political insight for identifying the importance of the personnel security issue and the appropriate politico-administrative measures. Hence, Secretary Acheson's administration of personnel security fell distinctly below his likely effectiveness according to the Stanley hypothesis. The disproportion between Acheson's likely and actual effectiveness in personnel security suggests a hypothesis for further research: the closer a federal political executive moves towards the Cabinet direction of a politically controversial department, the less sufficient is prior specialized experience in any one area of the same department (such as administration), and the more crucial are political insight and rhetoric."
10.2307_973472	1969	"In the 1970's American foreign aid must face an old challenge in new form-helping developing countries organize and administer large-scale action programs to deliver the fruits of new technologies to mass consumers. It will require new, creative, and experimental approaches to technological adaptation, development administration, and the concepts and methods used by AID in designing and conducting technical cooperation activities. Fortunately, as more and more developing countries shift from accepting known technologies to organizing large-scale action programs, American foreign aid can draw on a pronounced national comparative advantage: long-standing experience in organizing pragmatic, unorthodox mixtures of private, voluntary, and governmental instruments to convert new technologies rapidly to beneficial social uses. As technical cooperation in these new forms gains a higher priority in American foreign assistance, it will encounter complex social and political as well as technical and administrative problems. New doctrine-new sets of ideas and tested operational practices-will be needed to guide these efforts. To develop and test these ideas and methods will require a substantial and continuing investment by AID in applied research and experimentation which must mobilize the best talents in the physical and social sciences available in the United States and in the developing countries as well. This report suggests the dimensions of these new opportunities for American foreign aid, the components of a new approach to development administration, and the elements of increased flexibility required to enable the United States to meet the technical challenge of the 1970's."
10.2307_973603	1970	"Too much of the principle of separation of powers, particularly of separate and independent judicial power, has eroded in the United States. The so-called ""administrative process"" (a term sometimes used to describe the exercise of legislative and judicial power by executives) is widely employed by all levels of government in the United States and centralizes much power in the hands of executives. Separation of powers should be partially resurrected by making administrative hearing officers truly and completely independent and by making their decisions final. While it would not be easy or wholly satisfactory to make hearing officers independent and their decisions final, the case for doing so is nevertheless compelling when cast against the evils of the present system."
10.2307_974488	1972	"The article is an attempt to understand and analyze the politics of community action agencies. These agencies are viewed as organizations allowing us to draw upon the large body of knowledge and theory social scientists have developed in studying the behavior of organizations. Emphasizing particularly the imperative of survival for an organization and the necessity of obtaining sufficient environmental support in order to assure survival, much of the political behavior of CAA's is readily explained. The displacement of goals caused by survival needs, the effort to co-opt the environment, and the internal conflict caused by this process are analyzed through an intensive study of the Washington, D. C., Community Action Agency (UPO)."
10.2307_973809	1965	"Contrasting styles of leadership-the authoritarian and the democratic, the permissive and the coercive-the author brings to bear contemporary research in social psychology and conceptions of the exercise of social power. He finds a ""paradox"" in the assumptions of those who behave, even though they may not advocate, the authoritarian way, and describes an organizational cycle of coercion that illustrates ""the formidable blind spot"" in administrators who inflict this form of leadership."
10.2307_973402	1967	"Comparisons of the post-service attitudes of men recruited from the business community by Presidents Truman and Eisenhower with (1) the administration in which each executive served, (2) the number of years he held government posts, and (3) the department in which he worked indicated that political convictions are related only to the first of these three variables. Analysis also showed that perceptions of the policy-making process and of the people in government not only vary with administration of service but also appear to be related in some fashion to two other variables: Men who served more than eight years in Washington and men who worked in the area of national security policy expressed more positive perceptions than their compatriots. The study unearthed no evidence to suggest that close association with the government has a marked effect on fundamental convictions about the proper role of the government in the economic system. The firsthand exposure, however, tends to lead to increased understanding of the complex nature of the policy-making process and of the difficult problems confronting the government and, as a corollary, increased sympathy for government officials."
10.2307_973452	1964	"Despite the exhortations of reformers and substantial innovations in budgetary techniques, the expenditure of state funds is still dominated by the control orientation. The author examines some of the major factors accounting for the persistence of control patterns in state budget execution. Among the factors related to rigidity in budget execution are the budget officer's conception of his responsibilities, mistrust of line departments, the political environment of budgeting, the informational needs and resources of the budget office, the uncontrollability of the budget, the precarious balance of revenues and expenditures, and lack of performance standards."
10.2307_974440	1972	"The system of American intergovernmental relations is traditionally approached by observing how it operates rather than analyzing why it works as it does. Presented here is the first - and probably the last - attempt to develop some general principles about the federal system cast in terms that the practitioner of public administration can understand, or at least pretend to understand. The concept of ""appropriateness"" in intergovernmental relations, though simple, is not simple-minded, and perhaps is closer to true principles than more complex analyses of the subject."
10.2307_973667	1966	"In order that opportunities in the public service be genuinely available to all               Americans with the requisite capability, graduate schools, and, to some extent,               undergraduate as well, will need to devise imaginative programs for accelerated               training. The author here describes some programs now in operation and briefly points               to the lessons which may be learned from their experience."
10.2307_974402	1974	"The article has two main themes: (1) problems of managing a cabinet department, with Commerce the instant case; and (2) problems of the delivery system-the Oakland case and the multi-state Regional Development Commissions. Part I treats the management problem of a cabinet agency-the problems and pitfalls for the senior executives who try to ""run it"" and make it do something useful. Among the several vantage points considered are the views ""up,"" ""down,"" and ""sideways."" Part II considers two types of delivery systems. It points up the difficulty (if not futility) of trying to bend a federal agency to effectively deal with a major local problem in a particular locale in a complex context, with Oakland as a case in point. Having argued in Part II that the direct federal/local combination is unworkable, federal/multi-state arrangements are examined. Here the topic is ""regional development"" and the cases in point are the Appalachian Regional Commission and the eight Title V Commissions. Part III concludes with the need for decentralization of programs, structures, and money in order to place the resources closer to the problem-and the people."
10.2307_974464	1970	"This individualistic statement claims a pervasive relevance of philosophical existentialism to public administration. Existentialist themes are central to those management programs which derive from humanistic psychology. For the administrator, the primary tenet of existentialism is the freedom to choose. The essential qualities for an activist behavior of choice are intentionality, objectivity, risk-taking, and authenticity of personality. Evidence exists that proactive managers are ethical as well as productive. Their values, some of which are shared by the rebellious young, will be the motive forces for a predicted revolution from the top."
10.2307_973628	1961	"For years budget reforms have been sought in the name of economy, efficiency, and good government. A great amount of literature on budgeting is concerned with reform and views this reform as neutral and benefiting everyone. In this article the author argues that few, if any, reformers realize that any effective change in the budgetary process inevitably results in changes in the ""who gets what"" of government decisions. The article identifies some of the major political implications of budgetary reform."
10.2307_973248	1969	"A report on the conference of the Speyer Academy of Administrative Sciences in Germany where administrative scientists from throughout Europe met last September for a joint consideration of the state and tendencies of administrative sciences in European countries. Participants concluded that administrative study has gained a firmer institutional hold in Europe; new centers of teaching, training, or research have gone up; new periodicals have appeared; and new literature is available."
10.2307_974465	1970	"The author surveys the experience to date of federal agencies with PPBS, and concludes that, while progress has been made, on the whole the results are disappointing. Inadequate leadership and technical guidance by the Bureau of the Budget is one of the factors discussed which has hindered more fruitful implementation of PPB techniques. Recent steps by the Bureau of the Budget to correct present deficiencies of PPBS are analyzed, and a case made for the system's potential as a tool of the President to redress budgetary imbalances."
10.2307_974439	1972	"President Nixon's proposed Law Enforcement Revenue Sharing Act of 1971, as a piece of legislation designed to upgrade criminal justice administration, is a potential mixed blessing. Some of its provisions are an obvious improvement over the existent Safe Streets program, such as the elimination of local matching share requirements. Also, substitution of ""revenue sharing"" for ""grants-in-aid"" will, most likely, serve to increase the confidence of local government that assistance will be of sufficient continuity and permanency to motivate states and localities to generate sound law enforcement improvement projects. In several ways the bill proposed by Mr. Nixon does not go far enough to correct some obvious flaws in the Safe Streets program. Continuation of the requirement that the states file an annual comprehensive law enforcement plan is extending support to costly and doubtful venture. Failure of the Revenue-Sharing Act to seek the repeal of the ""one-third personnel limitation"" clause detracts from the proposed bill as it maintains this built-in bias for law-enforcement hardware. Lastly, the deletion of the current requirement under the Safe Streets Act that states and local governments cannot supplant their funds expended for law enforcement purposes with federal assistance moneys is the most significant change to the safe streets statute propsed in the Law Enforcement Revenue Sharing Act of 1971. This provision may be very detrimental to the very purpose of the assistance program - improvement of criminal justice administration. To allow supplanting is, in effect, to subsidize other functions of state and local government. While such may be desirable in principle, from the point of view of law enforcement improvement, it clearly is not."
10.2307_973578	1968	"The author contends that the universities of new or developing nations are of the utmost significance in the nation's perspective and advancement. More specifically, universities may determine both the direction and the rate of their nation's involvement. The writer argues that if this judgment is correct, and if the United States seriously plans to remain interested in developing lands, we need a deliberate and considered thread of public policy based on a sober assessment of the significance of the university for a nation's development. The basic policy proposed is that it is in the public interest of the United States to study, to cultivate, and to support universities of the new or developing lands. Some of the implications and challenges of such a proposal are analyzed here."
10.2307_973329	1968	"Mary Follett's contribution to the science of management and administration spanned the years between 1918 and 1933. She developed ideas much in advance of her time, many of which are only now beginning to be appreciated. Despite a nontechnical, almost simplistic terminology and a highly unsystematic style of exposition, she developed a theory of human interaction of considerable depth that retains a remarkable consistency over a wide range of applications. Her frequently cited admonition to follow the law of the situation is based on a concept of the ""situation"" as a whole complex of reciprocally related interactions which are by their very nature constantly evolving and changing, thus giving both the occasion and the opportunity for continual efforts to keep the process healthy. Integration, the name of the healthy process, is a means of bringing differences together so as to create a new synthesis. The ""law"" of the situation means acting in accord with present integrations and anticipating those that still need to be made. The theory has practical applications in the areas of order giving, conflict resolution, the exercise of authority and leadership, the proper use of expertise, the coordination of individuals and departments in an organization, and much else."
10.2307_974125	1968	"The author assesses the chief aspects of contemporary comparative public administration. ""Academic analysis,"" the quest for quantifiable data, ""creative juxtaposition"" of theory and data, topical country-by-country description, and a focus on problems of administrative action are discussed as ""prevailing visions"" of comparative administration. Physics' ""principle of complementarity"" is suggested as a useful metaphor for the study of comparative administration, and is related to the study of comparative administration as history and as science. The necessity for philosophic discussion as well as scientific discussion is stressed."
10.2307_973641	1964	"The scrutiny of governmental decision making and policy judgments is unceasing. A recent National Academy of Sciences report, for example, criticized the government for technological decisions that did not take cognizance of their impact on the deployment and utilization of scientists and engineers. The total issue is again joined in this symposium which presents some sharply contrasting viewpoints on administration, politics, and social change. Yehezkel Dror of the Hebrew University reexamines the decision making theory of Charles Lindblom's 1959 Review article, finds it wanting where rapid social change is occurring, and presents a new ""normative"" model for policy makers. Lindblom, now with the Department of State, defends his thesis in the context of American political change. Examining both the original Lindblom thesis and the Dror critique, Roger Jones of the Budget Bureau finds practicing administrators to be extremely skeptical of models and ""other prescribed methodology as a road to administrative salvation."" Placing the Lindblom essay in the perspective of public administration as a continuing study, Mickey McCleery of Antioch College finds in it an insightful contrast to the traditional theory of responsible bureaucracy. However, he joins with Jones in doubting the utility of models, and with Heydebrand in noting the philosophical difficulty of accepting what is as what ought to be. A University of Chicago sociologist, Wolf Heydebrand critiques the Dror model and the ""essentially conservative framework"" of Lindblom's argument."
10.2307_973184	1967	"The author suggests that a study of historical ways of society and of government may be essential to understanding why a given organization functions successfully, despite its nonconformity with long recognized principles of administration."
10.2307_973282	1967	"Systems analysis can be of only limited utility in government unless it changes so as to be better able to deal with qualitative and political phenomena. If systems analysis in its present form is applied to complex political issues, it cannot provide the hoped-for benefits; indeed, a boomerang effect may follow which will inhibit necessary innovations in the future. Instead, a new professional study of policy analysis should be developed. Policy analysis should combine present methods of systems analysis with qualitative methods and a full awareness of the special characteristics of political phenomena. Policy analysis should become a new professional role in government, operating within the political and organizational setting as a new component which contributes to aggregate policy-making without pre-empting in any way the functions of politicians and line executives. Development of policy analysis requires changes in the present rather sterile trends of the disciplines of political science and public administration and, in the longer run, establishment of a new ""policy science"" interdiscipline. Immediate steps can and should be made to move in the direction of policy analysis within the efforts to introduce a Planning-Programming-Budgeting System in federal administration. For example, the training provided in the special university programs sponsored by the government could be modified toward that end."
10.2307_973911	1962	"Collective bargaining has become a permanent and pervasive feature of the environment of management in private business. In the public service, however, collective bargaining is a relatively recent phenomenon. The argument over the threat of collective bargaining to the sovereignty of the state generated more heat than light and, as is often the case in theoretical arguments of this kind, has been left in the clouds by the de facto growth of collective bargaining in government. The effect of this growth is to bring the public executive, especially the public personnel executive, face to face with a new set of forces that he will have to try to understand so he can live with the limitations on his freedom to act and grasp the opportunities to improve the effectiveness of his organization. The symposium was arranged and guided by Sterling Spero."
10.2307_973630	1961	"Without a doubt one of the most important subjects to the public executive is the salary level in the public service. Not only does his own self-interest make this topic significant, but also, its significance is enhanced by the close relationship between salary level and effective administration of government programs. The logic of setting pay levels for government employees is reviewed and the results of recent studies comparing executive salaries in government and industry reported."
10.2307_973313	1964	"The Ombudsman concept was first examined in the pages of the Review in 1960 when Professor Henry J. Abraham reported the considerable success achieved by the Danish folketingets Ombudsman. He concluded (1) that Denmark possessed the ""kind of social climate that makes possible the existence and operation"" of such a governmental institution and (2) that ""differences between this country [United States] and Denmark,""... ""plus other differences inherent in America's body politic, make it unlikely that an Ombudsman could succeed on the national level in the United States in the foreseeable future."" Until the proposal by U. S. Representative Henry Reuss of an Administrative Counsel similar to the Ombudsman, only legal journals in the United States had given this Swedish innovation much note. In a recent article appearing in the New York Times Magazine section (September 13, 1964), Congressman Reuss outlined the elements of H. R. 7593. In contrast to the Scandinavian ""grievance man"" described by Dr. Albert Rosenthal in his article ""The Ombudsman-Swedish 'Grievance Man',"" Congressman Reuss's Administrative Counsel would deal only with cases presented by members of the U. S. Senate or House. Stating that the average citizen could thus obtain better (i. e., more expert) representation from the Administrative Counsel than from the harassed and harried congressional staff member, the Congressman felt that no legislator would ""weaken his direct relationship with his constituents,"" by establishing ""an independent agency that citizens would approach directly with their complaints."" This, Reuss contended, ""would probably end up as another impersonal bureaucracy."" Sweden has given both the exotic name and the administrative characteristics to the Ombudsman concept. The Ombudsman, who represents all citizens in dealing with the administrative bureaucracy, has given the Swedish people a full comprehension of the expanding role of government without any accompanying element of fear. The importance of the Ombudsman in creating a climate favorable to the development of a ""public philosophy,"" Dr. Rosenthal contends, suggests a prime potential value of an American equivalent. Professor Donald C. Rowat in ""Ombudsmen for North America"" examines the key issue-will the Ombudsman work here, that is, in the United States and Canada. Though agreeing with Representative Reuss that the Ombudsman would provide better citizen guidance than congressional staffs, he does not share the Congressman's reservations that the Ombudsman will produce further bureaucratization and contends that the office should be directly available to the people. The critical issues in the establishment of an American Ombudsman then are: (1) placement within the federal system-and the relationship and responsibility to existing executive, legislative, and judicial agencies, (2) the jurisdictional question of whether citizens would have direct access to the Ombudsman, (3) the impact on Congressional staffing-would an Ombudsman in fact provide citizens with more rapid and expert service than the Administrative Assistants and professional staff of U. S. Senators and Representatives, and (4) the total effect on public servants whose conduct would be open to the penetrating ""over the shoulder"" scrutiny of an officer concerned not only with legality, but with fairness and courtesy in the treatment of people."
10.2307_973643	1964	"The scrutiny of governmental decision making and policy judgments is unceasing. A recent National Academy of Sciences report, for example, criticized the government for technological decisions that did not take cognizance of their impact on the deployment and utilization of scientists and engineers. The total issue is again joined in this symposium which presents some sharply contrasting viewpoints on administration, politics, and social change. Yehezkel Dror of the Hebrew University reexamines the decision making theory of Charles Lindblom's 1959 Review article, finds it wanting where rapid social change is occurring, and presents a new ""normative"" model for policy makers. Lindblom, now with the Department of State, defends his thesis in the context of American political change. Examining both the original Lindblom thesis and the Dror critique, Roger Jones of the Budget Bureau finds practicing administrators to be extremely skeptical of models and ""other prescribed methodology as a road to administrative salvation."" Placing the Lindblom essay in the perspective of public administration as a continuing study, Mickey McCleery of Antioch College finds in it an insightful contrast to the traditional theory of responsible bureaucracy. However, he joins with Jones in doubting the utility of models, and with Heydebrand in noting the philosophical difficulty of accepting what is as what ought to be. A University of Chicago sociologist, Wolf Heydebrand critiques the Dror model and the ""essentially conservative framework"" of Lindblom's argument."
10.2307_973808	1965	"Revolution or evolution, primary progress or substantial threat-automation, computers, and electronic data processing have been intensively examined by a literal deluge of social science and technical writing. Analysis of the public impact and consequence of the new technology, an impact clearly being felt in both traditional and innovative governmental functions with managerial consequences for every level of the public enterprise system has, however, been heavily skewed to consideration of the federal establishment. It has also been at the federal level that the immediate opportunities for improved performance and the attendant psychological, educational, and social consequences of automation have been most fully grasped and examined. Only such relatively isolated items as (1) the 1963 Edward F. R. Hearle and Raymond J. Mason volume, A Data Processing System for State and Local Government, (2) the Metropolitan Data Center Project in Tulsa, Oklahoma (in operation since 1961 through a federally financed grant), and (3) the October 1964 New York University-System Development Corporation Conference have focused directly on the applications and issues in the use of processing techniques by state and local governments. Electronic data processing activities in state and local governmental establishments holds center stage in the following articles, though the possibility of national EDP systems, as suggested in the article by Dennis G. Price and Dennis E. Mulvihill, and the need for national regulation, as advocated in the paper by Caleb B. Laning, are in the wings. Price and Mulvihill, using as background a 1963 Electronic Data Processing Survey conducted by the consulting firm of Touche, Ross, Bailey, and Smart contrast the EDP practices and progress in forty-three of the fifty states. After providing quantitative data on ""typical monthly rentals, most common EDP applications and functions, and specific manufacturer's systems employed by the states, the authors indicate the organizational innovations employed by such states as New York, Texas, Hawaii, California, Michigan, and Wisconsin to centrally control and manage the total state EDP establishment. Law enforcement, employment security, and motor vehicles licensing and registrations are some of the specific state functions where they find excellent prospects for utilizing total information systems and on-line real-time systems. Interchange of EDP information between states is strongly urged as a necessary prelude to the control and guidance of automated systems. Potential disasters and retrogressions in ""debugging"" EDP systems, computer access systems (time-sharing), and methods and sources of funding in the introduction of systems are treated by Caleb B. Laning in his analysis of ""forces and trends."" But for Laning the crux of the problem is the ""potential tyranny in the operation of EDP systems,"" particularly as manifested in loss of employment, denial of individual knowledge and access to government EDP records, and unreasonable government data reporting requirements. Laning advocates federal legislation, a ""Bill of Rights""-and strongly suggests that far from being a neutral tool of management, the further growth of electronic data processing in government will involve basic constitutional issues of personal security and privacy."
10.2307_975019	1971	"Separate personnel systems for the higher civil service reflect the range and variety of modern government. But their adoption must take account of values applicable to American personnel systems. Of these, egalitarianism and political neutrality are especially relevant. The manner in which two pioneering separatist systems, California's Career Executive Assignment and the proposed Federal Executive Service, deal with these values, and how each system relates to, and may have benefited from, the ill-starred Senior Civil Service proposal of the 1950's, are set forth in this article."
10.2307_974039	1970	"This symposium is a product of the Committee on Research in Public Administration of the National Capital Area Chapter. The planning of the symposium, editing of the manuscript, and the drafting of the recommendations was by the Executive Committee: Conley H. Dillon, chairman; Fred R. Brown, E. Winslow Turner, and John M. Thornton, secretary."
10.2307_974040	1970	"This symposium is a product of the Committee on Research in Public Administration of the National Capital Area Chapter. The planning of the symposium, editing of the manuscript, and the drafting of the recommendations was by the Executive Committee: Conley H. Dillon, chairman; Fred R. Brown, E. Winslow Turner, and John M. Thornton, secretary."
10.2307_973743	1965	"Though created in 1959, the Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations has received ""comparatively little attention"" in professional literature. Professor Wright here outlines several unique structural characteristics of the ACIR and examines the general policy orientation which the Commission has developed. With the normal reticence of Congress to create permanent commissions, a permanent bipartisan commission with an advisory function is something of a rarity; yet, the author indicates, it was congressional rather than executive initiative that led to its creation. Though ""the Commission has not occupied a position of high significance or access to the President,"" the ACIR and its extremely productive staff have achieved a highly regarded position on the national-state-local scene. The author summarizes the policy orientation and working assumption contained in the Commission's publications, and concludes that it will have an increasing impact on efforts to perfect the federal system."
10.2307_973668	1966	"Little empirical research has dealt with the relationships of government               administrators to the publics they serve. This exploratory study uses the concept of               representational role perception to describe some aspects of these relationships.               Ninety-six top level officials in eleven agencies were interviewed at the Federal,               State, and local levels in the United States and Canada. Most officials perceived               their agencies as serving particular groups, as opposed to the general public. They               believed that their agencies are responsive to constituency demands, but that the main               source for the initiation of new policy is the agency itself. Insofar as               differentiation in responses occurred, they probably were associated with such               variables as individual job responsibility and career orientation, level of               government, organizational structural differences among agencies, and the particular               service performed by the agencies."
10.2307_973283	1967	"Ultimately the answers to many of the questions about computerized ""urban information systems"" depend upon an assessment of the final payoffs of the system, that is, actual improvements in governmental or private actions as distinguished from improvements in the information upon which such action is based. The author analyzes the types of final payoffs and some of the implications for government and private decision-making in urban areas."
10.2307_973575	1968	"This symposium will stand on its own base. But a word of comment is appropriate. The symposium is based on the Society's 1967 National Conference in San Francisco in several ways. But in the intervening period various things happened to the symposium on the way to the printer. There is no need to tell the story. It is sufficient to observe that all the editors concerned changed professional locations in the interim. Meanwhile, it has been decided to organize much of the annual meeting of the Society for 1968 around intergovernmental interaction topics. So the symposium looks not just retrospectively to San Francisco but prospectively to Boston. Certainly the subject is worthy of all the discussion it can get.-Dwight Waldo, Editor-in-Chief"
10.2307_974043	1970	"This symposium is a product of the Committee on Research in Public Administration of the National Capital Area Chapter. The planning of the symposium, editing of the manuscript, and the drafting of the recommendations was by the Executive Committee: Conley H. Dillon, chairman; Fred R. Brown, E. Winslow Turner, and John M. Thornton, secretary."
10.2307_973168	1963	"Administering a legislative research agency is an exceptionally complicated task calling for the ability to balance complex external factors, interpret the individual or collective legislative intent to the research staff, and supervise research that includes some unusual features. After external relations, the central problem of supervision in legislative research is the great diversity of subject matter to be studied. Assessment of program operations in the executive branch is the area of greatest substantive difficulty in research."
10.2307_974302	1973	"Technology is critical for sociological welfare, economic growth, and political survival. Unfortunately, technology has not always been an unmixed blessing. In solving political or economic problems by technological expansion, there have often been unforeseen and undesirable side effects, as well as unfavorable publicity. Technological implications have to be explored and understood relative to potential benefits and problems. Technology must be planned. Technological forecasting and technological assessment are new tools designed to give better insight and, hopefully, provide guidance as to whether to undertake the development of a new technology. Technological forecasting attempts to determine with a high degree of confidence future technological developments. The objective of technological assessment is the systematic examination of anticipated technological consequences. Organized and visible activity pertaining to TA has been almost exclusively localized within the government. Government commitment is practically dictated by the magnitude of the problem and the diverse groups generally involved."
10.2307_974303	1973	"Propoents of the President's proposals to reorganize the Executive Branch argue that adoption of the proposals will result in a much more coordinated set of national policies, more amenable to presidential control. Not only is such not likely to be the case, but the proposals contain profound policy implications which the Administration has not acknowledged."
10.2307_973246	1969	"This review of lessons from 30 years' experience with efforts at federal reorganization treats three main topics. Considering first the range of purposes actually served or intended by reorganizations, most of which involve shifts in control or status, in contrast with the officially recognized criteria, it concludes that we are no nearer to measurable and mutually compatible standards. Turning next to the processes of initiation and approval, it analyzes the provisions of the successive Reorganization Acts and the disposition of Plans submitted, emphasizing their spasmodic use and the distinctive characteristics of the method: it guarantees the President, if a Plan is challenged, a prompt floor vote on his proposal, barring amendments and bypassing the legislative committees, the leadership, and other normal hazards of legislation. Dealing finally with prospects, it concludes that the doctrines so far developed are inadequate to solve the impending problems of interdepartmental and intergovernmental co-ordination."
10.2307_973311	1964	"All social science disciplines have much to offer the decision making process in specific areas of public policy and governmental services. The author, an economist, provides both a thorough case analysis of a waterworks expansion decision and an introduction to the literature of economic planning and projection."
10.2307_974486	1972	"Many people who have reviewed the administration of natural resource programs in the federal government have recommended that all the diverse natural resource agencies be collected under a cabinet-level Department of Natural Resources. The justification given for this change is improved interagency coordination which would supposedly result from such a realignment. The author points out that the formation of a Department of Natural Resources would do little to solve interagency cooperation problems which result at the field level. Instead, it will be necessary to take an entirely different approach if interagency field cooperation is to be achieved on a permanent basis. It is suggested that a restructuring of the field organizations of federal natural resource agencies would improve interagency cooperation and institutionalize this improvement."
10.2307_974490	1972	"In response to an increasing concern about the low level of utilization of evaluative research findings in public programs, a mathematical model is suggested to predict the probable utilization of a report. The model is named Linked Indices for Assessing Relevance (LIAR). Because of its high predictive accuracy, based on well-established theories of organizational behavior, LIAR has multiple uses for management decisions, including the evaluation of an evaluation division."
10.2307_973179	1967	"The authors describe how the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) organized itself to cope creatively with problems and dilemmas in one aspect of its scientific program, viz., the attempt to draw the heterogeneous capabilities of universities into the national space effort. A number of government-academic issues are outlined; some questions and suggestions regarding resolution are offered."
10.2307_973929	1966	"American administrative theory and practice have strongly supported the thesis that a central staff agency, having responsibilities for budget preparation, personnel procedures, and purchasing practices is very nearly essential to efficient and economical administration. The thesis has seemed especially attractive to many developing countries which are short on trained personnel, and, perhaps, on the motivation for reform. The vagaries through which Brazil's Administrative Department of the Public Service has passed strongly suggest the need for an empirical approach to what is required to effect administrative reform."
10.2307_973744	1965	"Initiated in 1943 but organized and shaped in the postwar years, the United States labor attach?? program developed in response to emerging labor elites clamoring for power in various parts of the world. Designed both to influence foreign labor publics and, conversely, to convey to United States policy makers the wishes and aspirations of international labor, its goal-achievement continues to be frustrated by a number of factors. Not only is the labor attach?? program caught between conflicting pulls and hauls from various governmental and nongovernmental interest groups, but within the structure of the U. S. Foreign Service/State Department organization it is caught between the conflicting demands and expectations resulting from the ""political-generalist""-""specialist-functionalist"" dichotomy. This division penetrates into the field operation of diplomatic missions and affects accordingly the work of the individual labor attach??. Moreover, Professor Fiszman contends, the work of the labor attach?? and the success and purpose of the program are further affected by the weight decision makers in Washington attach to the ""labor factor"" in shaping foreign policy. This condition, in turn, is related to an Administration's fluctuating attitudes towards ""labor"" in general, and produces increasing reliance by the labor attach?? on informal communication."
10.2307_973314	1964	"Hard questions of public ethics are not answered by the semantic concoctions, pious platitudes, and appalling lack of subtlety that often characterize the codes enunciated to guide political and administrative behavior. Building upon the ""uncommon wisdom"" and personal example of Dean Paul Appleby, his successor as Dean of the Maxwell School, Syracuse University, examines the mental attitudes and moral qualities necessary to an explicit theory of personal ethics in the public service."
10.2307_973300	1966	"The PPBS approaches of the BOB provide valuable tools that may be damaged at inception if major problems remain unsolved. Confusion resulting from the use of many different interest rates for proposed transportation projects is an example. Too low an interest rate could lead to adoption of uneconomic projects. The BOB, or a Public Investment Commission that should be established, should formulate and issue economic and other standards and guidelines on a uniform basis to facilitate arriving at sounder investment decisions by the Executive Branch and Congress."
10.2307_973331	1968	"The powers of American state governors have been the subject of considerable investigation and analysis. Recently Joseph A. Schlesinger made a more quantitative attempt to rank the powers of the governors on their budgetary, appointive, tenure, and veto powers by analyzing the statutory and constitutional provisions in each of these areas. This research note focuses on the same basic question of gubernatorial power by analyzing the 39 state responses to a questionnaire sent to each governor. The analysis upholds the Schlesinger index but suggests that his indices do not go far enough."
10.2307_974939	1974	"A 1964 study by Professor Herbert McClosky on consensus and ideology in American politics provides an initial rationale for this study. While the McClosky study focused on popular and elite consensus surrounding American democratic ideology, this research utilizes McClosky's questionnaire to study the attitude of federal career bureaucrats toward certain democratic principles. The author considers federal executives among the most influential decision makers in the democratic system, thus establishing a rationale for the research. The article focuses on five basic hypotheses developed on the theme of federal executive attitudes toward a democratic ideology. Data for the study was gathered at the Executive Seminar Center in Berkeley, California, in 1969-1970. Data analysis leads the author to the conclusion that: (1) agency affiliation within the bureaucracy is an important determinant of an individual's attitude toward a democratic philosophy; (2) defense agencies tend to be populated with more ""anti-democratic"" executives; (3) the more years a bureaucrat spends in the public service, the more ""anti-democratic"" his attitudes become, and (4) the more formal education a bureaucrat has, the stronger his democratic beliefs and habits."
10.2307_973487	1966	"In the past, the removal of racial designation from forms has been a prime objective of the civil rights movement. With the passage of recent legislation to assure these rights, the absence of an item on race from statistical and administrative forms may, in fact, contribute to frustrating enforcement of the legislation."
10.2307_973386	1963	"The voluntary regional cooperation by the traditionally autonomous centers of learning, described in this article, is one of those rare phenomena-an innovation in the administration of higher education. According to the author, this movement beyond institutional horizons establishes a fresh precedent for American public administration."
10.2307_974009	1965	"With millions of dollars being spent for technical assistance programs and research, the author finds the premises and assumptions underlying the assistance to be faulty. Drawing on Wilson's writing to illustrate the political context in which development administration must function, Professor Riggs enters a strong plea for research funds to support empirical field work on the basic characteristics of socio-political systems. With ""weaknesses of administrative performance in all the underdeveloped countries... strikingly revealed in every report on economic development..."" it may well be time to heed Wilson's lesson that administration can be improved only after the cultivation of democratic politics."
10.2307_974122	1968	"Government patent policy is one of the most troubled issues of the government-industry ""partnership."" Government agencies and departments have a variety of approaches to the control of the technology developed through the ""partnership,"" and there are therefore a variety of consequences in terms of property rights and commercial value. The diversity in patent policy is principally due to the unique internal dynamics and history of the semi-autonomous administrative subsystems involved in the ""partnership."""
10.2307_974106	1969	"An investigation of the effects of the New Zealand Ombudsman's Office on department heads and public servants was carried out by interviews, a mailed questionnaire, and an inspection of the Ombudsman's complaint files. It was found that the apprehensions expressed by public servants when the Ombudsman was first proposed in 1961 have not materialized. There has been a change in attitude among public servants themselves who acknowledge that the Ombudsman has not impaired staff efficiency or candor. The support for the institution expressed by public servants is due to the impartiality of the Ombudsman himself; the small proportion of the complaints investigated by the Ombudsman that are found to be valid; the fact that his investigations have not impaired efficiency; and the fact that public servants themselves are using the Ombudsman Office to appeal their own personnel grievances."
10.2307_974484	1972	"The pace of technological change is increasing in part because of government's role as society's principal supporter of research and development. What is the nature of the interaction between government and technological advance? Government affects technological invention and development largely through bureaus and agencies responding to varying, often conflicting cues from scientific and political environments. Among the more significant factors affecting the government-technology relationship is the degree to which ""professionalized"" agencies tend to resist innovations in their areas of activity that emanate from ""outsiders."" Another is the degree to which administrative pluralism tends to facilitate technological innovation, especially in the early stages of the R & D continuum. In the later stages of the innovation process, more centralized controls become necessary as questions of what ""can"" be done give way to those concerned with what ""ought"" to be done. Weather modification is used as a case in point to illustrate some of the dilemmas government faces in its new role as technological innovator."
10.2307_973602	1970	"The employment practices of the federal government have evolved gradually from positive discrimination to passive nondiscrimination and only very recently to a positive commitment to genuine equality of opportunity. The progress in eliminating barriers has been handicapped by the problem of reconciling equal employment with the merit system and by problems of communication between the federal agencies and minority groups, especially the black community. If everyone competing under the merit system started from an equal beginning there would be no problem. But everyone does not start equally and there is a need for a more flexible approach to the merit system which will place more emphasis on potential and less on formal measures of educational achievement and experience. The successful implementation of equal employment programs also requires effective communication. In seeking to establish communication with the black community, administrators face four barriers: the suspicion felt by blacks towards all elements of the white establishment; the failure of managers to understand the current black movement; the failure to utilize the pipeline to the community provided by current employees; and the sporadic nature of most attempts at communication."
10.2307_973804	1965	"For over a decade the Organization Behavior Program of the Survey Research Center at The University of Michigan has studied large scale organizations including manufacturing plants, insurance firms, government bureaus, automobile dealerships, and such voluntary organizations as labor unions and the League of Women Voters. At the Center, psychologists, social psychologists, and sociologists have applied social scientific theory to the facts of organizational life. Survey techniques (permitting the use of sufficiently large samples to statistically analyze variations arising from size, region, etc.) and experimental studies (designed to isolate and examine specific organizational variables) have been employed to overcome the weaknesses of earlier research, particlarly case studies, where it was extremely difficult to draw valid generalizations. Focusing on control because of its central importance in the operation of large scale enterprises, the authors present fresh insights into the control mechanisms of organizations."
10.2307_973942	1962	"The author discusses a seminar for graduate students of administration that he has offered for the last five years. The seminar requires students to solve live problems involving introducing change on their jobs. Solving the problems in a living situation requires constant attention to their relationships with the people they work with on the job and with their fellow students who are acting as consultants. As a result, the author contends, the learning experience is more effective in bringing desired changes in student behavior, than the usual teaching technique or type of course content."
10.2307_974803	1973	"An analysis of rational-man organizational theories (including the works of Simon, March, and Allison) suggests that they exclude variables that are important to their domain, are unable to make predictions about events central to their concern, and are supportive of the status quo. The role of descriptive and normative theories is explored. The suggestion is made that if the explanatory power of organizational theory and its relevancy are to be increased, a more complex and humanistic model of man and more normative research are required."
10.2307_973380	1963	"A re-evaluation of pre-service education for public administration and post-entry training for public executives is needed, according to the author of this article. He argues that these programs must be re-designed to fit the progressive levels of understanding required as the public executive moves upward along his career path."
10.2307_974441	1972	"In spite of the fact that women were employed in public service before the Constitution was signed; in spite of the fact that the Civil Service Act of 1883 encouraged women to compete in civil service examinations on the same basis as men; and in spite of the fact the Classification Act of 1923 established the concept of ""equal pay for equal work,"" it took other actions to move toward equal opportunity for women in the federal service. In 1965, an 1870 law that permitted agencies to select men or women for vacancies was repealed by Congress; in 1967, an Executive Order added sex to other prohibited forms of discrimination (race, color, religion, and national origin); and subsequently, in 1967, the Federal Women's Program was established to enhance the employment and advancement of women in the federal government. Further, President Nixon's Executive Order 11478 of August 8, 1969, raised the level of attention on the Federal Women's Program by integrating it into the overall Equal Employment Opportunity Program. Equal opportunity for women is public policy. The Federal Women's Program is designed to insure that this policy becomes practice."
10.2307_973181	1967	"The position of Program Management Officer in the Public Health Service, a development of the 1950's, is designed to bring to the administration of health research and other scientific programs a high level of management competence. It is a position combining line and staff functions. The author here describes experience in the position and offers suggestions as to what is required to make it effective."
10.2307_973941	1962	What are the basic sources of conflict between the city manager and his council? The author identifies six major classes of conflict that limit the effectiveness of the council-manager operation by limiting the good working relationship necessary to make the plan work well. These sources of conflict may also have relevance for other similar board-administrator relationships.
10.2307_973663	1966	"The President's proposal to amend the Constitution and provide four-year terms for               members of the House of Representatives leads to twelve predictions, many of which are               mutually contradictory, about the effects of the change. It is concluded that the               proposal is insufficiently grounded in thought about the role of elections in the               political system."
10.2307_974666	1971	"Central legislative clearance in the U. S. Bureau of the Budget (now the Office of Management and Budget) has long been understood as a coordinating and supervisory tool of major importance, crucial to the development of presidential programs, and instrumental to Executive leadership in Congress. This article identifies the steps normally taken within and between operating agencies before legislative clearance is in any way centralized in the Executive Office of the President. The author argues that line bureaucrats and a few departmental executives may have become their own best negotiators and mediators in the clearance process, while Budget has suffered a major eclipse by the White House staff. During the '60's and continuing into the '70's, high priority programs and not a few of lesser moment have been taken up for final clearance by the President's closest aides. The result: a double assault on traditional Budget authority and a recentralization of legislative clearance in the White House staff."
10.2307_973178	1967	"The author here makes the case for a separate Department of Education, rather than the creation of a super Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, containing the three sub-cabinet departments of Health, Education, and Welfare. The analogy with the Defense Department is not appropriate."
10.2307_973925	1966	"Though the effectiveness and representative character of Congress may be debated, it has been clear for some time that the staffing of Congress is not sufficient to meet its needs and that staffing practices are inefficient. The recent hearings of the Joint Committee on the Organization of Congress have provided an opportunity for the Members themselves, and for students of Congress to discuss the role of the Congressman, the staff assistance requisite to this role, and various means by which the assistance could be made available. Much of the discussion has centered upon a Congressman's service to his constituents, particularly ""case work,"" and to the kinds of help appropriate in this critical area of Congressman-constituent relationships."
10.2307_974308	1973	"In theory prohibitions against voluntary political involvement are necessary to maintain the neutrality of government workers, but in practice such restrictions may constitute an unconstitutional infringement on freedom of speech. After many years of upholding the concept of the federal Hatch Political Activities Act, the lower courts have lately manifested an increasing concern with protecting the constitutional guarantees of public employees and have re-examined political prohibitions in view of changes in the character of public administration. This judicial trend toward modifying the doctrine of political neutrality did not achieve its purpose, however, as the Supreme Court reaffirmed the legality of the Hatch Act. Any hope for reform must now be directed at Congress. In the meantime, federal and related employees will remain second-class citizens."
10.2307_974008	1965	"From the time of the first Hoover Commission to the present, water resources administration has benefited from the application of economic analysis and intergovernmental innovation. The author reviews welfare economics theory, water resource investment problems, and the ""policy-institutional framework"" in which decisions are made. He concludes that technical economic progress has surpassed that on the administrative side, and suggests new organizational arrangements for deciding and implementing governmental policy for water resources."
10.2307_973180	1967	"When metropolitan political structures are ineffective, planners and other experts cannot bring about change simply by serving as staff aides. What roles are appropriate for the expert? Should he become an activist?"
10.2307_973527	1961	"The introduction of a generalist, in the form of an area director, into the organizational structure of the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department of the Interior disturbed previous organizational arrangements. The broad functional responsibilities and centralized organization of the Bureau of Indian Affairs prior to the change had resulted in habits of specialist dominance and independence. Adjustment to the change in structure has ended in a power equilibrium between the generalists and specialists the visible symptom of which is a type of dual supervision where neither dominates."
10.2307_973840	1963	"The Brookings Institution's intensive study of New York City government's professional manpower problems revealed that significant progress had been made in personnel administration but it also revealed more difficulties than one would expect. The author of this article discusses three deeper issues that the study found that contribute to the intensification of other problems. These problems-the repute of the city government as an employer; detailed, centralized fiscal controls; and centralized authority over personnel decisions-affect every other part of the administration of the programs of this modern metropolis."
10.2307_974645	1972	"This article identifies and discusses three distinct stages in the development of equal employment opportunity in the federal government. The stages are labeled the period of inaction, period of reaction, and period of proaction. The policies and procedures with respect to equal opportunity of employment are briefly explained for each stage. Then, a comparative analysis of the stages is undertaken with respect to the levels of employment and advancement of racial minorities in the federal government. The implications of the federal experience for other public and private agencies are presented. It is concluded that the policies and procedures of the federal affirmative action program may be a worthy model for other organizations to emulate, with modifications to fit their particular situation."
10.2307_973396	1967	"The history of the study of administrative science in Germany from the creation of the first academic chair for ""cameral science"" in 1727 is traced with special emphasis upon the Speyer Academy. The origins of the Speyer Academy and its predecessors, as well as the structure and curriculum of the Academy, are described. The role of the Speyer Academy in German administration is critically treated and the needs of the future assessed."
10.2307_974485	1972	"Methods of organization improvement derived from the applied behavioral sciences may be of benefit to local government. However, there are potential conflicts between the behavioral science models of desirable organizations and change processes and the realities of administrative systems imbedded in political processes. In programs to apply organization development or other behavioral science methods in public organizations these conflicts need to be identified and understood."
10.2307_973631	1961	It is difficult to pick up a management journal today without seeing some article claiming phenomenal results from the application of one or another of the techniques of the new management science to an administrative problem. The public executive needs to be able to place these tools in their proper perspective. This article puts these tools in perspective and discusses the responsibilities of the public administrator in relation to them.
10.2307_973579	1968	"The current institutional approach of organizational analysis requires the establishment of a set of characteristics or attributes defining organization. However, the apparent necessity of imputing certain values to the ""organizational condition"" has placed severe restrictions on the ability of theorists to respond adequately to the valuational questions raised by the organizational world of modern man. These restrictions may be seen through an exploration of concepts of ""citizenship"" as perceived by two major organization theorists, Philip Selznick and Herbert Simon. It is suggested that the problems posed here demand response from both organization theorists and political theorists, the former through a more behavioral orientation, the latter through reformulations of citizenship categories."
10.2307_973776	1961	We are going through a number of significant changes that will affect our resources needs in the future. How can we make our resources policies more effective in the broad role they play in our national development? What must be done to improve the administration of our resources in the future? It is argued here that a demand-supply analysis can furnish the basis for building a broad resources policy structure and that application of this analysis can offer some lessons for improving resources administration in the future.
10.2307_973288	1967	"We know appallingly little about the most essential elements of school policy formulation. For large cities particularly this is an area of critical importance in the development of imaginative school policy. The author has reviewed educational decision-making in New York City in an effort to analyze the distribution of power in a large city school system. The results raise serious questions regarding the movement toward ""professionalization"" of school policy-making. Constant emphasis on school independence indicates the lack of concern or awareness of how independence is manifested in a self-perpetuating bureaucracy. This analysis of school policy-making in New York City calls into question the assumption that legal and budgetary standards are necessary to assure professional control. It also questions the defense of professional isolation, given the goals of a flexible school system and an involved public."
10.2307_974905	1974	"Organizations are viewed as utilizing selective perception in arranging their units in order to respond to a turbulent environment. Chain-structured, singularly responsive organizations are highly selective and quite limited in their response. These organizations perceive the environment as static and homogeneous. They thereby justify performing a narrow and limited function with high technical efficiency. Mediatively structured, categorically responsive organizations perceive the same turbulent environment in terms of discrete, well-comprehended processes and entities, and thereby justify forcing turbulent demands into uniform categories of organizational response. Adaptively structured, comprehensively responsive organizations respond to the full turbulence of the environment. Organizational response to its environment influences the manner in which each organization manages its internal units, assesses its performance, gains political support, and is able to decentralize its structure."
10.2307_973227	1970	"The author discusses Max Weber's treatment of the modern military organization. Although Weber's understanding of the relationship between the general nature of prebureaucratic military organizations and the larger society were innovative and have stood the test of time, his references to the internal organization of the distinctively modern army are surprisingly maladroit. There are ambiguities and inconsistencies in usual academic theories of military administration-especially when viewed against the theoretical positions which some military administrators have taken in modern times-which should be investigated by students of public administration."
10.2307_973821	1962	"One of the most confusing aspects of current public administration is the apparent gap between the way practitioners view organization and the way a large number of the teachers and researchers view organization. The wedge between these two points of view seems to be the impact of the findings of the social science research of the past two or three decades on the selection of what factors are important in understanding organization and administration. Presented here is a discussion of this issue by individuals talking to one another, perhaps, across a chasm. The reader can judge whether there actually is a chasm; if so, how deep it is and whether it can be bridged."
10.2307_975156	1972	"Public officials are currently besieged with organizational conflicts, the nature of which ranges from a dissatisfied employee to a full-scale riot. This article attempts to consider organizational conflicts from the administrator's point of view; thus, it outlines some methods that an administrator may use to develop a strategy for conflict resolution. The article, first of all, identifies the most common kinds of organizational conflicts. Second, it underscores the importance of differentiating between conflicts (e. g., between those that foster creative tension and those that are potentially destructive to the organization), and it presents a model for determining the degree to which they are important and should be resolved. Finally, the article presents some specific proposals for resolving organizational conflicts and summarizes these proposals by presenting the ""Organizational Conflict Resolution Grid."" For illustrative purposes, the author will draw on his own experience with school organizations."
10.2307_973301	1966	"The encroachment of economics upon politics is not difficult to understand. Being political in perspective is viewed as bad; having the perspective of the economist is acclaimed as good. As a discipline, economics has done more with its theory, however inadequate, than has political science. Under some conditions economists can give you some idea of what efficiency requires. It is a rare political scientist who would even concern himself with political rationality. Economists claim to know and work to defend their interests in efficiency: political scientists do not even define their sphere of competence. Thus the market place of ideas is rigged at the start."
10.2307_974149	1967	"The basic preconditions to effective administration determine the success of public policy and administration. The four major preconditions are the existence of a skill pool, the existence of organizational experience, the existence of an organizational language, and an established set of administrative norms. Experience in local administration and comparative administration in developing areas demonstrates the importance of these four preconditions. They determine the personnel potential of administrative structures, the capability of bureaucracy to meet change, and the success of efforts at implementing public policy. The absence of the necessary preconditions has serious implications for developing areas and for the nations attempting to aid these areas. Often what are accepted as standard administraive practices cannot function because of a lack of the basic conditions on which these practices are predicated. The major solutions to an absence of administrative preconditions are education, administrative elitism, and a more flexible attitude toward the practice and methods of modern administration."
10.2307_974904	1974	"Public administration theory has always rejected politics. Federal executive reorganization provides an interesting setting for an analysis of the consequences of this apolitical theory. Herbert Hoover's reorganization attempt, while Secretary of Commerce, is used for this purpose. Hoover, in this early example of executive reorganization, failed to make orthodoxy work. His search for administrative order was disrupted by clientele politics. Yet orthodoxy remains the preeminent theoretical element within the most recent reorganization plans. What have we to substitute for failed orthodoxy? Modern administrative theory, as represented by either Simon or the pluralist-representative perspective, rests on orthodoxy and the administration-politics dichotomy. Neither offers a coherent theoretical perspective for illuminating the so far hidden, political face of administration. We must seek theory which unites administration and politics. The most promising tools for this task lie in the language and categories of policy analysis."
10.2307_973841	1963	"The limits of formal authority is a much discussed topic in the contemporary literature of public administration. The author of this article analyzes one of the major sources of the new view, that recognizes that legal capacity and actual influence in an organization are not necessarily the same -Chester I. Barnard. The author discusses the strengths and weaknesses of Barnard's work and argues that there are elements of two theories of authority embedded in the Functions of the Executive."
10.2307_973539	1969	"The Commission on Political Activity of Government Personnel was created in October 1966 to review the Hatch Act and make recommendations for change. This article discusses the principal issues before the Commission, the criteria relied on in making judgments, and the conclusions reached. Though not acted on in the 90th Congress, political activity of government personnel is an issue which will persist until changes are made in existing policy."
10.2307_973572	1968	"This symposium will stand on its own base. But a word of comment is appropriate. The symposium is based on the Society's 1967 National Conference in San Francisco in several ways. But in the intervening period various things happened to the symposium on the way to the printer. There is no need to tell the story. It is sufficient to observe that all the editors concerned changed professional locations in the interim. Meanwhile, it has been decided to organize much of the annual meeting of the Society for 1968 around intergovernmental interaction topics. So the symposium looks not just retrospectively to San Francisco but prospectively to Boston. Certainly the subject is worthy of all the discussion it can get.-Dwight Waldo, Editor-in-Chief"
10.2307_975279	1972	"The current Administration's concern for federal administrative effectiveness has been reflected in the growth of Federal Regional Councils. These Councils, established in 10 federal regional headquarters cities, include those federal agencies primarily concerned with special programs. This report is based on a cooperative project between The Urban Institute and the Office of Management and Budget to aid in the development of these Councils. A variety of goals have been posited for Councils. Primary among these are the identification of conflicting agency policy and program practices; and the design of coordinated and consistent agency actions to deal with these conflicts. The article focuses on problems in interagency coordination, as well as the dilemmas created for the Council because of its lack of authority to undertake actions which are viewed as costly by any of its members. A series of suggestions are made to strengthen the Council so that it can play a proper role within a national decision system."
10.2307_973448	1964	"The most important ingredient in the development of a nation is neither the amount nor the nature of foreign assistance. It is the will and commitment of the Government and people directly involved. These are the words with which President Johnson opened his recent foreign aid message. The author elaborates on this theme and suggests that one important manifestation of this ""will and commitment"" is the correcting of structural flaws in the bureaucracy of host countries and the filling of the administrative void that hampers assistance efforts."
10.2307_973896	1963	Field administration is usually one of the most difficult problems an organization has to face. This article indicates that in our foreign aid program this problem is intensified by a number of unusual factors. How can foreign aid administrators and technicians in offices in strange cultural settings far from Washington maintain an adequate breadth of perspective on their work? The author has some suggestions about how this might be done.
10.2307_974021	1965	"Wisconsin's 1959 and 1962 legislation, extending to public employees the right to organize and bargain collectively, has had mixed results. In Milwaukee, a city which had established good-labor-management relations in public employment, the 1962 act brought too much too quickly; the consequence has been unhappy."
10.2307_973745	1965	"California's wave of municipal incorporations, because of the considerable impact that such new municipalities have on metropolitan regions, has been accompanied by bitter political contests. Many of the newly incorporated cities typify the ""special purpose"" motive. Fear of annexation, officials of nearly all these new California municipalities have admitted, was a principal motive for incorporating. Professor Goldbach describes a recent reform in municipal incorporation procedures which may limit such incorporations. Established by the California State Legislature in 1963, Local Agency Formation Commissions are now empowered to review all incorporation proposals in their respective counties. Constituted with balanced city-county representation, these new commissions can modify or withhold incorporation proposal approval before the proposals are even eligible for protest hearings and final elections. Formation Commissions also have the power to determine and implement discretionary standards which proto - cities must meet. Reflecting the bitterness between ""localists"" and ""regionalists"" over incorporations and annexation practices, the author outlines conflicting viewpoints concerning membership, standards, and enforcement activities of the commissions. He contends that the future of metropolitan governmental structures, and even the direction of state interposition in future urban reforms, may depend on how Local Agency Formation Commissions are affected by local political considerations."
10.2307_973927	1966	"Speed and accuracy in the tabulation of election results can be described as essential in the conduct of elections in a modern democracy. Often, local Election Boards, seeking to change out-dated election practices, encounter a number of difficulties, not the least of which is lack of information about the procedures of other jurisdictions, the availability of electronic equipment, the costs of purchasing and maintaining equipment, the training of personnel, etc. The Hamilton County, Ohio Election Board became convinced that a basic change in its procedures was necessary after a recount in 1960 altered the outcome of an important local contest. The Board hoped to avoid major changes in the conditions under which voters go to the polls."
10.2307_974423	1970	"The operation of the U. S. Civil Service Commission Executive Seminar Centers are outlined, with favorable judgments based on traditional training evaluative techniques. Two central operational matters are discussed, the lecture emphasis and the participant selection process. To diversify the program curriculum and to avoid overusage of lectures, four alternatives are suggested: modified lecture, solid core, export of training technology, and management exchange and feedback. The questions of selection primarily involved unresolved issues over the development of generalists out of specialists. The Commission may be forced to choose between a ""thin"" and ""heavy"" participant system, for the many or the few."
10.2307_973449	1964	"A concerted movement is under way to free American women from prejudices and outmoded customs which act as barriers to their full participation in American life. These discriminations are particularly operative in the working community and act to limit or restrict the employment and advancement opportunities of well-qualified women. The author, who served with the President's Commission on the Status of Women, identifies and debunks some of the conventional assumptions concerning comparative employment characteristics of men and women workers. The personal insistence of President Johnson that women play a larger role in Government is found to provide a significant impetus to advancing their employment status in the federal service, and a strong focus on this issue in other segments of the economy."
10.2307_973169	1963	"Results of an exploratory study of superior-sub-ordinate relationships in three local public service organizations-a police station, a welfare agency, and an elementary school-suggest some modifications in the use of the concept of authority. Perceptions of authority differ, not only from organization to organization, but also from the point of view of the superior, the subordinate, and the neutral observer. Awareness of these differences on the part of the superior and the subordinate may facilitate both the satisfaction of individual needs and the achievement of organizational goals."
10.2307_973317	1964	"The land is our vital and unifying resource, and the competition among those that would develop it is often intense and bitter. Only recently have public programs devoted to preserving open space for social amenities been enacted. Many of these programs, however, lack standards and a sense of direction. The author strongly contends that further requirements for open space must be determined before major public expenditures are made."
10.2307_973264	1969	"The following communication-in the form of a small pamphlet entitled ""The Condition of the Federal Employee and How to Change It""-was forwarded by one of its authors in the hope ""that you might print it in PAR for professional response and feedback."" After much reflection we have decided to publish it with this end in view, though aware that many of the REVIEW's readers will not believe the statement worthy of a ""professional"" response. We feel that, at minimum, the existence of the statement is a fact about which those interested in public administration should be informed."
10.2307_973538	1969	"The author uses data from a national sample of 14 local public health departments to explore the question of whether a single continuum underlies several different organizational variables relating to the way control is achieved in an organization. The underlying dimension of the confinuum is seen as the distribution of power in the organization, but might better be characterized as the degree of specificity of role prescription in the organization. The variables that may be considered as measures of this continuum relate to the structure of and management styles within the organization. When the total organization is viewed as a unit (sum of the individual responses), it was found that as organizations become more centralized and formalized, management styles become less participatory, morale decreases, and innovation and productivity are lower. However, when the organization is viewed as the sum of social positions, or when subgroups within the organization are considered, these relations do not hold. The differences might be explained in terms of the relationship of the task environment to organizational structure and in terms of composition effect. The author concludes that a single continuum does not appear to exist, nor is ""power,"" defined as role specificity, an ingredient in all organizational behavior."
10.2307_974038	1970	"This symposium is a product of the Committee on Research in Public Administration of the National Capital Area Chapter. The planning of the symposium, editing of the manuscript, and the drafting of the recommendations was by the Executive Committee: Conley H. Dillon, chairman; Fred R. Brown, E. Winslow Turner, and John M. Thornton, secretary."
10.2307_974976	1971	"USAC was created to promote and guide urban information systems research and development by combining federal financial and technical resources with local governmental and private resources. A consultant to the Committee discusses USAC's evolving organization reflecting on the conditions and need that gave rise to its formation, the directions being set, the philosophy and strategy evolved to carry out its mission, and the administrative arrangements forged. Speculating about the Committee's longer-term viability and significance, he concludes that now is the time to examine its goals and future organization."
10.2307_974010	1965	"Weaving the requirement of credibility midst references to Camus, Kafka, The Last Hurrah, Fail-Safe, and C. P. Snow-the author suggests a framework for the evaluation of the ""administrative novel."" He contends that both the artistic universe and the perceptions of writers await (and deserve) systematic treatment by social scientists."
10.2307_973397	1967	"The bulk of public technical, administrative, and staff employees are recruited from university campuses. The attitudes of American college students toward public employment vary widely on the basis of the level of government under consideration, with all public employment viewed less favorably than private work. These attitudes toward civil service careers are influenced by a variety of determinants such as sex, socioeconomic condition, perceptions of ""success,"" the motivation to ""get ahead or take a top job,"" or assumptions about the ""monotony"" of public employment. A predictive model is presented which attempts to account for these determinants of attitudes toward government work and to demonstrate the relationship between student attitudes and the ultimate characteristics of our civil services, and hence the quality of public administration."
10.2307_974304	1973	"The success of arts patronage programs is determined, in part, by the adequacy of financial provision. Of crucial importance, however, is the effectiveness of the administrative devices used by governments to extend assistance to the arts. In this article the operations of the Canada Council, the Arts Council in Great Britain, and the National Endowment for the Arts in the United States are examined to obtain insights into the intricacies of arts patronage administration. Patronage devices are of three types: (1) those designed to aid arts organizations; (2) those that assist individual artists; and (3) projects directly managed. This article analyzes and evaluates comparatively each administrative method or device employed by the three governments to support and encourage the arts, and proposes a viable package of devices, integrated and multifaceted, which governments everywhere can use to discharge their patronage responsibilities more successfully."
10.2307_973953	1961	"The author takes the reader through the major steps in the process of cross-cultural training under International Cooperation Administration programs, pointing out at each step weaknesses that he believes need special attention. These problems, he argues, show primarily the complexity of the cross-cultural training process and not that it is of questionable value. The article concludes with several recommendations for improving cross-cultural training in public administration."
10.2307_974105	1969	"The Bureau of the Budget conducted a study of the implementation and utilization of the Planning-Programming-Budgeting System (PPBS) in 16 domestic federal agencies. Several factors which appeared to affect the implementation of PPBS in these agencies were studied through direct, openended interviews, mailed questionnaires, analyses of the agencies' formal and informal organizational structure and process, and data on personnel identified by the agencies as being PPB analysts. The study found that: (a) policy analysis in most agencies is not performed much differently than it was before the advent of PPB; (b) agencies varied widely in the rate at which they elected to emphasize analytic capability or the process for integrating analytic output with decision making; (c) the most important factor determining the relative effectiveness of an agency's PPB efforts was the active support and use of PPB by the agency head (support was perceived when the agency head asked for analysis of issues or when he reviewed specifically the results of policy analyses); and (d) there was uncertainty within the agencies as to whether PPB was intended to be an agency management tool or primarily to fulfill the requirements of the Bureau of the Budget. Agencies which perceived PPB to be a Bureau requirement generally made less progress toward the integration of analysis with decision making than agencies which perceived the tool as an instrument of agency management."
10.2307_973719	1962	"The Review was fortunate in having obtained the latest information on the dread disease ""Hawthornitis."" As is frequently the case, there will probably be numerous additions to the battery of treatments presently offered when the ponderous research machinery swings into action financed by foundation grants, a march of dollars, and the Federal government. Whether the epidemic can be halted or not only the future will tell, but it is, without a doubt, zero hour for manning the barricades."
10.2307_973807	1965	"Revolution or evolution, primary progress or substantial threat-automation, computers, and electronic data processing have been intensively examined by a literal deluge of social science and technical writing. Analysis of the public impact and consequence of the new technology, an impact clearly being felt in both traditional and innovative governmental functions with managerial consequences for every level of the public enterprise system has, however, been heavily skewed to consideration of the federal establishment. It has also been at the federal level that the immediate opportunities for improved performance and the attendant psychological, educational, and social consequences of automation have been most fully grasped and examined. Only such relatively isolated items as (1) the 1963 Edward F. R. Hearle and Raymond J. Mason volume, A Data Processing System for State and Local Government, (2) the Metropolitan Data Center Project in Tulsa, Oklahoma (in operation since 1961 through a federally financed grant), and (3) the October 1964 New York University-System Development Corporation Conference have focused directly on the applications and issues in the use of processing techniques by state and local governments. Electronic data processing activities in state and local governmental establishments holds center stage in the following articles, though the possibility of national EDP systems, as suggested in the article by Dennis G. Price and Dennis E. Mulvihill, and the need for national regulation, as advocated in the paper by Caleb B. Laning, are in the wings. Price and Mulvihill, using as background a 1963 Electronic Data Processing Survey conducted by the consulting firm of Touche, Ross, Bailey, and Smart contrast the EDP practices and progress in forty-three of the fifty states. After providing quantitative data on ""typical monthly rentals, most common EDP applications and functions, and specific manufacturer's systems employed by the states, the authors indicate the organizational innovations employed by such states as New York, Texas, Hawaii, California, Michigan, and Wisconsin to centrally control and manage the total state EDP establishment. Law enforcement, employment security, and motor vehicles licensing and registrations are some of the specific state functions where they find excellent prospects for utilizing total information systems and on-line real-time systems. Interchange of EDP information between states is strongly urged as a necessary prelude to the control and guidance of automated systems. Potential disasters and retrogressions in ""debugging"" EDP systems, computer access systems (time-sharing), and methods and sources of funding in the introduction of systems are treated by Caleb B. Laning in his analysis of ""forces and trends."" But for Laning the crux of the problem is the ""potential tyranny in the operation of EDP systems,"" particularly as manifested in loss of employment, denial of individual knowledge and access to government EDP records, and unreasonable government data reporting requirements. Laning advocates federal legislation, a ""Bill of Rights""-and strongly suggests that far from being a neutral tool of management, the further growth of electronic data processing in government will involve basic constitutional issues of personal security and privacy."
10.2307_973644	1964	"The scrutiny of governmental decision making and policy judgments is unceasing. A recent National Academy of Sciences report, for example, criticized the government for technological decisions that did not take cognizance of their impact on the deployment and utilization of scientists and engineers. The total issue is again joined in this symposium which presents some sharply contrasting viewpoints on administration, politics, and social change. Yehezkel Dror of the Hebrew University reexamines the decision making theory of Charles Lindblom's 1959 Review article, finds it wanting where rapid social change is occurring, and presents a new ""normative"" model for policy makers. Lindblom, now with the Department of State, defends his thesis in the context of American political change. Examining both the original Lindblom thesis and the Dror critique, Roger Jones of the Budget Bureau finds practicing administrators to be extremely skeptical of models and ""other prescribed methodology as a road to administrative salvation."" Placing the Lindblom essay in the perspective of public administration as a continuing study, Mickey McCleery of Antioch College finds in it an insightful contrast to the traditional theory of responsible bureaucracy. However, he joins with Jones in doubting the utility of models, and with Heydebrand in noting the philosophical difficulty of accepting what is as what ought to be. A University of Chicago sociologist, Wolf Heydebrand critiques the Dror model and the ""essentially conservative framework"" of Lindblom's argument."
10.2307_973303	1966	"The author here reviews relationships between the academic, practical and professional approaches to public administration and suggests that they should draw more closely together. A conceptual framework for curriculum is suggested to establish a bridge between forces which will influence practice and available knowledge, and provide a basis for educational programs to meet current needs and needs which can be forecast for the immediate future."
10.2307_974785	1973	"This article proposes a far larger role for fiction than its traditional place as a supplement to textbook theories. It suggests that a closer relationship between imaginative literature and public administration will occur as scholars recognize the importance of perceptions in the study of organizational phenomenon, and that fiction has utility for research purposes in the testing of existing theories and the opening of new insights. The theoretical contributions of imaginative literature are illustrated through a compact bibliographic essay relating 100 novels to the major fields of study in public administration-administration, bureaucracy, organization theory and behavior, management science, and comparative administration."
10.2307_975248	1974	Our national policy efforts for urban and regional development have evolved from many fragmented programs and concepts of the New Deal. Most recently we have developed what seems to be a turning point in that policy evolution-great concern and effort to consolidate and relate the myriad of urban and rural programs to one another in the hope of creating a consistent national development policy. This article discusses some of the goals and means we might have for such a policy and the dilemma of conflict between them. An administrative model is suggested which could help reconcile the goals and means for establishing a consistent national development policy in the United States.
10.2307_973803	1965	"Educational preparation of policy generalists, the author contends, ""is scarcely a school for political eunuchs. The facts of our political life are at war with our political theory,"" and Professor Long finds the intellectual basis of public administration and planning professions to be disintegrating just when the demand for its practitioners is at a peak. Noting parallels between the modern city manager and the medieval podesta and condottiere (Italian governors-for-hire and European soldiers of fortune), he challenges research and educational institutions to directly confront this core educational issue, not merely by scientific inquiry, but through a consciously held and ""critically examined political philosophy."""
10.2307_974210	1973	"A President's Commission on Federal Statistics during 1970 and 1971 investigated improvements in the federal statistical system. The author, on behalf of the American Statistical Association and American Institute of Planners, sought the views of users of federal statistics for small areas-metropolitan areas, counties, cities, neighborhoods. Based on over 100 replies from numerous city, county, regional, state, and federal agencies, the author extracted and elaborated recommendations for improvements in federal statistics on small areas: a quinquennial census of population and housing; improved timeliness and coverage of federal statistics; improved on-going housing data; improved statistics on crime and the criminal justice system; improved labor force statistics, especially occupation and place of work; improved income statistics; improved geographic identification; and improved communication and organization of federal small area statistics programs."
10.2307_973516	1968	"The purpose of this essay is to call attention to the extraordinarily difficult dilemmas in which thinking public officials, both military and civilian, find themselves today. The author argues that our changing world environment compels us to raise questions about governmental legitimacy but that we are handicapped in doing so by some fundamental conceptual ambiguities. Among those he describes are: the term ""public administration"" itself, the relation between a bureaucracy and its political context, the concept and organization of legitimacy, the American tradition of constitutionalism, responsiveness and responsibility in government, bureaucratic power and performance, and the revolutionary principle. The essay was originally prepared for and delivered at the ASPA Conference at Boston, Mass., on March 29, 1968."
10.2307_974124	1968	"The Department of Health, Education, and Welfare's planning-programming-budgeting system is described. The development of the Department's five-year plan, the plan format, and prospects for improvement are discussed. Difficulties and choices are pointed up and the important but limited contribution of PPBS to HEW programs is stressed. If PPBS is in the end a success, the author concludes, it will not be because it displaces, but because it helps, the traditional political processes."
10.2307_974993	1972	"Like all conceptual systems, modern organization theories are subject to some degree of reductionism and oversimplification. It is undoubtedly more appropriate to recognize that organizations are much more complex than even the most denotative theories will admit. As a consequence, the practical implications of the less complex theories may indeed be misleading. An alternative view would be to recognize that a multitude of organizational forms are possible, each arising to meet internal and external demands upon the organization. Emphasis upon the unique, individual, features of organizations may be necessary before a viable organization theory can be developed. To this end a taxonomy of organizations would be desirable."
10.2307_973662	1966	"The current interest in predicting the impact of computers and automation on society,               and the disturbing conclusions reached in papers sponsored by the Center for the Study               of Democratic Institutions, raise questions as to whether many studies have been               undertaken on a scientific basis, using hypotheses subjected to disciplined and               systematic methods of testing. In the following article, the author makes a               preliminary analysis of the credibility of the conclusions reached by considering both               a set of sample data and a probability estimation procedure. The author believes that               scientific methods are appropriate but have not been used and that the predictions and               conclusions of the cited studies therefore cannot be accepted without careful               systematic analysis."
10.2307_973469	1969	"This paper suggests that the state is withering away in a psychological sense because of an increase in awareness in contemporary society and a growing questioning of all authority. It also suggests the state is withering in a technological sense because of a failure to use organized knowledge to satisfy expectations and values. It then suggests that a new form of the state, the ""innovative state"" characterized by a new form of authority, may in time emerge."
10.2307_973315	1964	"Drawing on nearly seven years of experience in Nepal and India and familiarity with the foreign aid programs of Korea, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Cambodia, Thailand, and other Southeast Asia countries, the author contends that the Agency for International Development could achieve a greater return on the foreign-aid dollar through more extensive use of contracts in lieu of conventional direct-hire methods."
10.2307_974018	1965	"The problem of water resources appears to be not one of inadequate supply, but rather of rational allocation among competing uses. The crisis is, then, a managerial crisis. The author here suggests new approaches to management processes and proposes basic economic principles which might well be adapted as criteria for a water resource program."
10.2307_973910	1962	"Collective bargaining has become a permanent and pervasive feature of the environment of management in private business. In the public service, however, collective bargaining is a relatively recent phenomenon. The argument over the threat of collective bargaining to the sovereignty of the state generated more heat than light and, as is often the case in theoretical arguments of this kind, has been left in the clouds by the de facto growth of collective bargaining in government. The effect of this growth is to bring the public executive, especially the public personnel executive, face to face with a new set of forces that he will have to try to understand so he can live with the limitations on his freedom to act and grasp the opportunities to improve the effectiveness of his organization. The symposium was arranged and guided by Sterling Spero."
10.2307_975247	1974	"The federal civil service has witnessed the emergence during the last five years of a model of professionalism which stresses working openly for changes in agencies' goals, programs, and personnel policies, including resorting to protest to achieve these ends. The dynamics of the federal protest movement and some important institutional characteristics of federal agencies are examined in an attempt to assess the viability of this ""within the system"" change strategy and its effect on the federal service."
10.2307_974147	1967	The author describes some of the important and interesting developments in executive training since the passage of the 1958 Government Employees Training Act.
10.2307_973937	1962	"The author argues for the importance of political institutions in the significant task of synthesizing the results of specialization; broadening the narrow, parochial view; and making sense out of things in general. The historical growth of political institutions, the value of experience as an elected political official, and party responsibility are all placed in perspective from the standpoint of their contribution to making general sense."
10.2307_973914	1962	"The public service is often criticized as inefficient and uneconomical and is thought to suffer when compared with private industry. The blame for this is usually ascribed to the lack of a profit motive to spur on the public executive to work for the most efficient level of operation. The authors of this paper make this argument and then go on to suggest a method for introducing the profit motive into government, employing a federal agency to illustrate how their proposal would work."
10.2307_973183	1967	"Employing an analytical framework suggested in a PAR article by Alan K. Campbell and Seymour Sacks, the author re-examines the major factors which are associated with variations in per capita total municipal expenditures of 304 cities with a 1960 population of 50,000 or more and shows that the formulae used for State grants-in-aid, and the State-local system and local sub-systems of government, are dominant determinants of variations in municipal expenditure levels. The empirical evidence of impacts of both State aid and the allocation of functional responsibilities on municipal spending may be used as a guideline for city administrators and municipal finance officers in formulation of fiscal plans."
10.2307_974207	1973	"This article, after considering the need for effective techniques for policy evaluation, develops a model for the evaluation of urban public policy. The model consists of five separate components and includes a time variable. The final section of the paper uses the component model and resulting variables to evaluate two hypothetical urban programs. The problems encountered in single- and multi-program evaluation attempts are discussed. Finally, conclusions are drawn concerning the limitations and utility of evaluation efforts."
10.2307_974082	1968	"Several new programming techniques which have been successfully developed and applied in the private sector, particularly in the fields of production scheduling and industrial management, have direct application to the programming of governmental operations. There are two basic requirements for formulating a program for governmental activities that would permit the application of these more advanced management techniques: (1) a clearly stated work program (including a breakdown of jobs or work elements) directed toward one or more definable objectives; and (2) the skill to attach cost and resource estimates to each work element in this program. Given this information, two techniques which offer the most potential, while at the same time are relatively simple in their application, are the Critical Path Method and Heuristic Programming. In the following study, these techniques are presented first in general terms and then as they have been applied to a fairly complex, nonproduct-oriented governmental activity-the Third Phase of the Wisconsin State Planning Program. It is suggested that the oft-heard argument that such programming and analysis techniques developed by private enterprise are not applicable to private activities is fallacious by its very nature, and that there is no inherent reason why these techniques could not be applied to any governmental activity at any level as a valuable tool for cost minimization."
10.2307_974376	1970	"On January 1, 1968, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania commenced work on the establishment of the Management Planning and Development System, supported by an inventory of the highest-ranking administrative, professional, and technical personnel in the state. This was and is the only such inventory at the state level. This article provides a profile of APT personnel, based upon a sample of 400 in the inventory of 5,900. Major findings include: (1) Pennsylvania has an aging APT cadre of which a large proportion have served many years in state government; (2) educational achievement among Pennsylvania personnel has been high, and the proportion having some graduate school experience continues to increase; (3) APT recruitment has been restricted mainly to Pennsylvania and adjacent states; (4) personnel born in less-populated counties tend to be over-represented; and (5) persons in the inventory are favorably disposed toward changing their jobs and their geographic locations."
10.2307_974487	1972	"This is a critique of a new management game being used in the federal government-Goddard Research Engineering Management Exercise (GREMEX). The exercise involves teams of players who act as managers of a research and development project-the orbiting optical observatory-of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. During this exercise a computer and the referee-instructor together provide the realistic environment within which the team participants make their decisions affecting the course of the project. The article discusses the place of GREMEX in a tradition of games and simulations, and notes the similarities and differences between GREMEX and other management games currently in use for business training. Some of the actual decisions being made by the GREMEX teams are described to illustrate the nature of the exercise. Finally, GREMEX is evaluated in terms of its particular relevance to public administration and the research and teaching possibilities which derive from such a management game."
10.2307_973540	1969	"This article asks the reader to look at language in a quite different way than it is usually viewed. Drawing on the ideas of Benjamin Whorf and others in linguistics, the article sets forth the proposition that we perceive things not as they really are, but as language allows us to approximate reality. Our perception, judgment, and consequent behavior, therefore, are limited and molded by the language system we use. During a two-year assignment in Pakistan, the author had an opportunity to ""test"" the ideas of Whorf with respect to Urdu. The implications of the research extend deeply into both theoretical and practical aspects of administration in developing areas. Persons concerned with developmental administration must realize that different linguistic systems may structure ""reality"" in a significantly different way than English does. For the reader who is concerned solely with domestic problems of administration, the article points to the need to understand the limitations which the English language places on our perception of domestic problems."
10.2307_973604	1970	"Educational administration is conceived as a public form of general administration. Its dissimilarity consists of the fact that to some extent its responsibilities do not extend to the products of the educational institutions. Rather, they end at the point where they maintain satisfactory conditions for leisure activities. In this respect educational administration may serve as a model for the governance of an increasing number of organizations, both public and private."
10.2307_973577	1968	"The maintenance of an ongoing organization and a sense of continuity of purpose by government agencies is impeded by the fact that personel decisions are often dictated by external pressures rather than by organizational demands. The United States Army, Navy, and Foreign Service have reacted to pressures toward more universalistic recruitment criteria by emphasizing recruitment from traditional sources as criteria for promotion to the top grades within these organizations. This is not the case in either the United States Air Force, where such traditional criteria do not exist, or the case of the Marine Corps, which has been under less environmental stress. The level at which new personnel are brought into the organization is an important determinant of the organization's reaction, as is the organization's ability to mobilize resources in the face of legislative and/or executive opposition."
10.2307_973395	1967	"The social composition of government bureaucracies has important implications for social and political systems. In this paper comparisons are made between national samples of federal civilian employees and nonfederal employees on key social and occupational characteristics. Federal employees differ modestly from the general employed public in several respects, one of the most important being the bureaucracy's openness to minorities. Nevertheless, the similarities between the two work forces are perhaps more striking. Furthermore, federal workers have had extensive experience in a representative variety of nonfederal pursuits. There is little persuasive evidence that federal workers are not broadly reflective of the American social structure."
10.2307_973826	1962	"These articles were given as papers at one of the best attended panels of the 1962 ASPA National Conference which considered an eleven-year-old adolescent, electronic data processing. In what activities is this youth engaged? How rapidly is he maturing? What will he be like when he reaches maturity? How can we guide his growth to maturity? Answers to questions like these, whether in relation to human beings or to an instrument of organization and management, are, at best, educated guesses. The crystal gazing, hard-headed evaluation, and simple descriptions of experience included in this symposium should help us reach those educated guesses. What will we say in ten years? What will be the result of our actions based on these educated guesses: a juvenile delinquent or a useful citizen?"
10.2307_974937	1974	"Professionalization of the police is quite often suggested as one way to improve citizen evaluation of law enforcement. The purpose of this research is to test this assumption in a preliminary way, as well as the the two corollary assumptions that (1) professionalism is associated with effectiveness and restraint in the use of force, and (2) effectiveness and restraint are positively valued by the public. It has also been suggested that public evaluation of the police depends more on one's general psychological orientation to government than on the type and quality of police service rendered. For example, a high yet diffuse sense of access to government may result in a positive evaluation of the police even though the citizen has little specific knowledge about the type and quality of law enforcement in his city. The implied hypothesis is that if the effects of access are controlled, professionalism will will be unrelated to evaluation. Professionalism was found to be related strongly, but negatively, to positive evaluation of the police. This finding is congruent with the finding that professional departments tend to be relatively ineffective in suspect apprehension, but are more likely to be perceived as exercising restraint. Citizens on the other hand are most positive in their evaluation when police are effective and not overly committed to restraint. The negative relationship between professionalism and evaluation is present even when sense of access to government is controlled. The irony implied by the findings is that even though the characteristic response to serious law enforcement problems is professionalization, professionalism implies greater concern by the police for restraint and fairness which does not seem to be shared by the public."
10.2307_975245	1974	"The U. S. Department of Labor's WIN (work incentive) program, intended to increase the employment and earnings of welfare recipients, is a failure. Although two major reasons for this failure, lack of client motivation and poor labor market conditions, are largely beyond the control of the WIN program, a third problem, bureaucratic inertia, is not. This article presents a modest proposal for dealing with this bureaucratic problem. The proposal is to develop a measure analogous to profits for the WIN agencies, where ""revenues"" are based on the success of each agency's clients in the labor market (adjusting for differences in client characteristics and labor market conditions). Agencies would, under the proposal, be rewarded or penalized on the basis of their ""profits,"" and they would be given much flexibility and autonomy as possible in their pursuit of ""profits."" Thus, in contrast to the current situation, the proposed system would encourage efficiency and innovation directed toward increasing the success of the program's clients."
10.2307_973400	1967	"In 1958 the Venezuelan government initiated a major program of administrative reform that relied substantially upon private technical assistance. The achievements of this program under the democratic, reformist government elected in 1958 were a disappointment. Some explanation can be found in the political conditions of the era and in the failure to give much weight to these conditions in reform planning and strategy."
10.2307_973382	1963	The author of this article presents data showing that the office of mayor in the large city is a political dead end avoided by our best potential national leaders. She argues that the only hope for salvaging the office of mayor as a significant local executive and as a training ground for potential national leaders lies in federal programs for urban development and reinforcement of the city's prestige in state politics.
10.2307_973836	1963	"Governmental budgets at all levels of govern ment-federal, state, and local-have a new dimension in their significance to the economic objectives of our society, according to this author. We must now examine governmental budgets much more closely in terms of their economic role and their economic impact and we must inquire into the relative merits of government expenditures in contributing to the realization of our economic goals."
10.2307_973558	1964	"Basic budget decisions are political and should be, the author agrees, but, he argues, this doesn't mean they need be non-rational since the economic tools are available to refine the unit benefit and cost factors of competitive expenditures for comparison. The time has come when it is reasonable to expect a quantified attack on crucial budget decision factors by a governor and state legislature or by a mayor and council."
10.2307_974489	1972	"Until recently, sites chosen for federal agencies wishing to relocate outside the Washington, D. C., area were selected with little or no regard to the effects of a relocation on the agency's employees, or the use of site selections to help improve social and economic conditions in an area. The article describes the controversial relocation of the U. S. Public Health Service to Montgomery County, Maryland."
10.2307_973645	1964	The transfer of governmental machinery from the European colonial powers to the elected representatives of emerging nations has been a critical problem of our times. The new African state of Malawi has only recently completed this often chaotic and divisive process. The author reports how an orderly constitutional transition was obtained by carefully conceived political and administrative measures and by human understanding.
10.2307_974958	1971	"Technological development is assumed to be the major source of political and cultural change, stimulating three underlying fundamental changes: (1) increased capacity to control, (2) increased complexity among and within economic, political, and social institutions, and (3) an increased sense of overall uncertainty. The consequences of these changes are explored for political values and the administration of public affairs. In both cases, they result in serious dilemmas for the use of technology in the service of American social and political values. These dilemmas are partially attributed to our present understanding of technology as ""it"" interacts with social and political institutions. A changed perspective of technology is called for, and a proposal is made for applying expanded and much more difficult criteria to the systems analysis of technological development."
10.2307_973912	1962	"Collective bargaining has become a permanent and pervasive feature of the environment of management in private business. In the public service, however, collective bargaining is a relatively recent phenomenon. The argument over the threat of collective bargaining to the sovereignty of the state generated more heat than light and, as is often the case in theoretical arguments of this kind, has been left in the clouds by the de facto growth of collective bargaining in government. The effect of this growth is to bring the public executive, especially the public personnel executive, face to face with a new set of forces that he will have to try to understand so he can live with the limitations on his freedom to act and grasp the opportunities to improve the effectiveness of his organization. The symposium was arranged and guided by Sterling Spero."
10.2307_974104	1969	"This article presents a plan for bringing the income of poor families up to the poverty line. The plan is a kind of antipoverty insurance administered by a consortium of private insurance companies and a public authority; it, thus, has the advantages both of public control and of involvement of the private sector. Two types of insurance are proposed: job insurance for those seeking work or whose present jobs do not earn an income sufficient to bring them out of poverty, and subsistence insurance for people who are unemployable. The features of this plan are discussed here in detail."
10.2307_973170	1963	"Educators charged with the formulation of introductory courses in public administration have failed to keep abreast of the changes in public policy and administration. Government by contract, the role and function of the military, the administration of overseas programs, and public administration in the developing nations are new subjects that must be included in the introductory course, if we are to meet the challenge of modern public administration."
10.2307_974307	1973	"This article focuses on the legislative oversight process in council manager cities. Using several aspects of cybernetic analysis, the study concentrates on such questions as: What sources of information are available to the council member to carry out the oversight function? Are the available sources adequate? To what degree are the available sources used by the council members? Thirty-eight council members and 12 city managers from cities in the San Gabriel Valley-a suburban region east of Los Angeles-were interviewed for this study. The data suggest that the tools for effective legislative oversight are available; however, the fact of the matter is that the public elects few council members with the desire to use these tools. Therefore, the manager and his staff are in a favored position; the professional staff are a major source of policy and the information that is used by the council members to oversee that policy."
10.2307_973394	1967	"A rationalistic approach to decision-making requires greater resources than decision-makers command. The incremental strategy, which takes into account the limited capacity of actors, fosters decisions which neglect basic societal innovations. Mixed-scanning reduces the unrealistic aspects of rationalism by limiting the details required in fundamental decisions and helps to overcome the conservative slant of incrementalism by exploring longer-run alternatives. (Incremental decisions tend to imply fundamental ones, anyway.) The mixed-scanning model makes this dualism explicit by combining (a) high-order, fundamental policy-making processes which set basic directions and (b) incremental ones which prepare for fundamental decisions and work them out after they have been reached. Mixed-scanning has two further advantages over incrementalism: It provides a strategy for evaluation and it does not include hidden structural assumptions. The flexibility of the different scanning levels makes mixed-scanning a useful strategy for decision-making in environments of varying stability and by actors with varying control and consensus-building capacities."
10.2307_973297	1966	"It is the author's thesis that program budgeting in the Federal government will indeed allow key management functions to be carried out which are not now possible under our present administrative budgeting system; that it can provide formal ways of regularly evaluating alternatives; of stimulating marginal trade-offs among resources; of identifying problem areas; of generating improved management and investment strategies and procedures; of formulating planning and operating theories; and of defining information requirements. In order to make these contributions, program budgeting attempts to make explicit the relationship between direct outputs and programs and the nation's more profound objectives and purposes."
10.2307_974017	1965	"The contributions of economics to public administration and to national plan administration are obvious. They include-although economics can by no means claim sole credit for them-accounting, input-output analysis, planning theory, systems analysis and operations research, decision theory, game theory, bargaining theory, and statistics, among others, as well as older less specifically differentiated contributions like monetary theory. An especially significant instrument for the administration of national planning is the market mechanism. Hence, the study of the market mechanism is central to the study of plan administration."
10.2307_973484	1966	"The Program coordination demands in the Great Society have ushered in a new era of experimentation in techniques for program teamwork. One such technique is the Metropolitan Desk which the Department of Housing and Urban Development plans to use in improving the effectiveness of urban development programs in metropolitan areas. These coordinators would provide information to State and local officials on available sources of Federal assistance, serve as catalysts for conflict resolution among Federal and local agencies, and provide a metropolitan focus for Federal activities. A survey of local officials, Governors, Federal field officials, and Federal urban development program chiefs indicates that such a proposal is favored by all groups, except the Governors. The Metro Desk coordinators will face difficult problems in winning the support of fellow Federal officials and in meshing competing and related domestic programs. The coordinators may be the forerunners of more substantial machinery for intergovernmental and interagency coordination in the field and, as such, are extremely significant."
10.2307_973988	1969	"Bureaucracy and the extent of the political control over bureaucracy has great importance today. The Partido Revolucionario Institucional (PRI), the dominant political force in Mexico, has tried to imbue the government bureaucracy with modernizing values. The PRI has attempted a ""disaffect none"" philosophy and has had remarkable results. But the growth of tecnicos- those charged with the technical end of administration-has seen potential trouble spots develop. Political control over the bureaucracy seems established, but the tecnico is in a stronger position for making decisions which have been in the hands of the politicos. What the future will be between these two groups is uncertain and creates problems for Mexico's economic and political development."
10.2307_973182	1967	"The present study attempts to advance the continuous endeavors of economists and political scientists to explain the intergovernmental variation in fiscal behavior. Nearly all of the earlier studies have drawn a conclusion implying that socio-economic factors rather than governmental systems are mainly responsible for fiscal variation. Assuming that the conclusion of these studies, which obscures the influence of governmental systems, is due to the conceptual inadequacy of governmental system variables employed, the local governmental system of the United States is classified according to the characteristics of state-local fiscal relations calling it the local fiscal assignment system. The local fiscal assignment system describes the functional, procedural, and institutional complex of state and local governments in terms of the assignment of state-local fiscal responsibility to local governments within each state. The local fiscal assignment system demonstrates the significance of local governmental systems by accounting for the greatest portion of local fiscal variation of all the variables included in the analytical equasion."
10.2307_974019	1965	"Three instances of decision making in a State water resource development agency illustrate that skill and patience can result in consensus among agencies with diverse goals and operating procedures, among interest groups competing for water, and among State public officials who are popularly elected. The decision-making procedures described assure the agency of a kind of running check upon public sentiment with respect to a critically important public program."
10.2307_973541	1969	"This is a review of the efforts of the Executive and Legislative Branches to coordinate the national marine science program. It covers the creation and operations of both the National Council on Marine Resources and Engineering Development and the Commission on Marine Science, Engineering and Resources. An analysis is made of the organizational alternatives that have been proposed for marine sciences including a ""wet-NASA""; reorganization using ESSA as the pivot, as proposed by Senator Muskie and the President's Science Advisory Committee; a COMSAT-type organization; and establishment of a National Oceanographic Council. Several forms of organization are feasible, all of which would represent an advance over the current situation which fragments the effort among 11 departments. The Commission has just recently issued its report, Our Nation and the Sea, which discusses in great detail a proposed recommendation for reorganization. The time appears ripe for an aggressive reorganization to insure that marine sciences will be given adequate attention and funding. Hopefully, a cutback in expenditures for Vietnam will enable the program to move forward."
10.2307_973642	1964	"The scrutiny of governmental decision making and policy judgments is unceasing. A recent National Academy of Sciences report, for example, criticized the government for technological decisions that did not take cognizance of their impact on the deployment and utilization of scientists and engineers. The total issue is again joined in this symposium which presents some sharply contrasting viewpoints on administration, politics, and social change. Yehezkel Dror of the Hebrew University reexamines the decision making theory of Charles Lindblom's 1959 Review article, finds it wanting where rapid social change is occurring, and presents a new ""normative"" model for policy makers. Lindblom, now with the Department of State, defends his thesis in the context of American political change. Examining both the original Lindblom thesis and the Dror critique, Roger Jones of the Budget Bureau finds practicing administrators to be extremely skeptical of models and ""other prescribed methodology as a road to administrative salvation."" Placing the Lindblom essay in the perspective of public administration as a continuing study, Mickey McCleery of Antioch College finds in it an insightful contrast to the traditional theory of responsible bureaucracy. However, he joins with Jones in doubting the utility of models, and with Heydebrand in noting the philosophical difficulty of accepting what is as what ought to be. A University of Chicago sociologist, Wolf Heydebrand critiques the Dror model and the ""essentially conservative framework"" of Lindblom's argument."
10.2307_973714	1962	"Conflict between elements of the traditional theory of organization and values derived from our Judaeo-Christian tradition raises moral problems in organizing, according to the author. He argues that evidence from social-psychological research in organizations suggests that the closer organization conditions approach these commonly accepted values the better the response of the employee to the organization. This indicates, he believes, a close relationship between elements of newer organization theory and traditional moral values."
10.2307_973774	1961	"Great revolutionary changes by their color and dramatic visibility force us to examine their causes, effects, and implications. In most cases, however, change is so gradual that it often passes unnoticed by most of us until some observer points out that the total impact of the slow change has become so great that we are all affected. Administration by contract in the federal government is one of these gradual changes. The author shows that its problems and benefits need much more study and discussion than we have given them, since this method of administration has significant implications for many facets of our life in addition to public administration."
10.2307_974374	1970	"This article seeks to explore the validity of the assumptions used by Congress and the Executive Branch in setting organizational criteria to be met by nationally subsidized local and regional nonfederal agencies. Multicounty economic development districts are specifically considered to test the proposition that variations in scale, treated as neutral in designing these units, can have negative effects for both the ability of certain local groups to have their interests represented in district policy and for the implementation of national goals through district programs. The data that are available and inferences which can be drawn from them support the hypothesis. Consequently, if predictable and successful national-local organizational linkages are to be established, efforts are needed to produce an explicit set of testable propositions about the interrelationship of organizational scale, structure, and behavior at the subnational level to performance in the achievement of federally defined values."
10.2307_973486	1966	"Because of growing dissatisfaction with grant-in-aid practices, especially the lack of adequate systematic review, two reforms have been suggested. One is the proposal of Senator Muskie and the Subcommittee on Intergovernmental Relations, which would require a review of all new grant-in-aid programs, plus their automatic expiration in five years. The second is the more ambitious proposal of Public Administration Service of Chicago, which has suggested the use of a grant-in-aid device to encourage the adoption of role playing in conjunction with our federal system. Federal assistance thus used could hopefully strengthen, rather than weaken, State programs, while at the same time reducing duplication of effort."
10.2307_973451	1964	"Twelve years have passed since the American University of Beirut's Public Administration program-the first in the Middle East-was established, and 10 years since it was first reported on in the Public Administration Review. Much has happened in the interim. The program has expanded in spite of its loss of independent status as an academic department. The decade has seen ever increasing attention given to comparative administration, aid, and technical assistance. The author in this postscript discusses an important effort to export the administrative discipline, the problems that have been overcome, and those that remain unsolved."
10.2307_973401	1967	"Early in 1961 the U. S. Civil Service Commission established the Career Executive Roster, then a new approach to the selection and utilization of top executives in the federal career service. Main purposes of the program were to offer government agencies an internal executive search service and to facilitate rapid mobilization staffing in the event of a national emergency. During the five years of its life it operated with a minimum of fanfare and staff. Its accomplishments were modest, but it did prove the feasibility of using a central roster to fill top jobs in the competitive service. The program was superseded by the Career Executive Inventory, a part of the U. S. Civil Service Commission's new Executive Assignment System."
10.2307_974938	1974	"An important criterion governing the determination of wages in local government employment is the prevailing wage principle. This principle, rationalized by various economic and political considerations, presumably requires public employers to pay the same wage rates as private employers for comparable jobs. The empirical evidence presented here, however, indicates that rather than reflecting this form or wage parity, occupational wage structures in major American municipalities are more egalitarian than those found in private labor markets; local governments pay relatively more for unskilled, semiskilled, and skilled craft workers but relatively less for high-level professionals, managerial and executive employees, than employers in the private sector. These wage relationships are further elucidated through examination of the wage-setting process among local government employers in Los Angeles, California. The structure of decision making in these governments, characterized by fractionalized (multiple-party) management and the vesting of final authority over wage matters in politically constituted governing boards, substantially contributes to the observed pattern of public-private wage differentials in this city. Jurisdictional governing boards seem particularly responsive to the size and thus potential voting power of an employee group, and these responses are evident even before the emergence of formal collective bargaining. Implications of these conclusions for public management and the quality of services offered by government are briefly considered."
10.2307_974121	1968	"The author argues that the concept of poverty is a quite relative one. The standard of living which is considered impoverished varies from place to place and from time to time. He then traces the concept of poverty in the United States. In early American society widespread poverty did not exist, and the poverty which did exist did not put a serious strain on local governmental resources. In the latter part of the nineteenth century poverty in the United States became a serious problem and local governments could no longer handle it alone. In the first three decades of the twentieth century poverty existed on a scale which increasingly required the assistance of state governments. The poverty ushered in by the Great Depression in the 1930's was unique, and the impact upon governments and politics in the United States was significant. The present situation is that of a persistent core of poverty surrounded by affluence. The war on poverty is an attempt to uncover and strike at the roots of poverty, and destroy its causes instead of treating its symptoms. The antipoverty program of 1964 and the reasons for the limited success of the war on poverty are discussed. The author contends that despite disagreements among American economists over the means to achieve a new economic structure and over the exact nature of that structure, their current thinking constitutes the final stage in the evolution of Keynesian economics. Open and free discussion of the contemporary problem of poverty, rather than fruitless ideological controversy, is called for."
10.2307_975280	1972	"Administrative theory can no longer legitimize the functional rationality of the organization as it largely has done. The basic problem of an earlier time was to overcome the scarcity of material goods and elementary services. In that period a great amount of toil in work settings was technically and socially necessary and even inevitable, which is not true at present. What brings about the crises in today's organizations is the fact that by design and operation they still assume that old scarcities continue to be basic, while in fact contemporary man is aware of critical scarcities belonging to another order, i. e., related to needs beyond the level of simple survival. Thus, the Social Darwinism that has traditionally validated management theory and practice has become outdated by the force of circumstances. This article is an attempt to reassess the evolution of administrative theory. It takes models of man as its point of reference (namely, the operational man, the reactive man, and the parenthetical man)."
10.2307_974991	1972	"Executive development has never been a priority item within our governmental structure. While we have always recognized the need for well-trained, quality employees, once people are hired they are, for the most part, left on their own to improve their skills, learn new approaches, and acquire new knowledge. This article attempts to point out some of the flaws in the present system of ""training"" federal executives and looks to the development of a new and improved ""education and training"" system. With the passage of the Intergovernmental Personnel and Training Act, the article takes on added significance. While initiating this most important act, the Civil Service Commission and the OMB has the opportunity to institute some badly needed research and develop a comprehensive system of education and training."
10.2307_973898	1963	The relationship between fact and value and their relative roles in decision making have been a point of contention for some time. This author reviews the respective arguments and attempts to clarify the issue. He then goes on to suggest a model that relates the fact-value distinction to the process of choice.
10.2307_974041	1970	"This symposium is a product of the Committee on Research in Public Administration of the National Capital Area Chapter. The planning of the symposium, editing of the manuscript, and the drafting of the recommendations was by the Executive Committee: Conley H. Dillon, chairman; Fred R. Brown, E. Winslow Turner, and John M. Thornton, secretary."
10.2307_973646	1964	"The last ten years have seen a tremendous burgeoning of literature on the public service. The characteristics of, and requirements for governmental manpower have been carefully examined. Yet we still lack concrete measures of excellence which the author suggests are essential to an evaluation and improvement in governmental programs and personnel."
10.2307_973828	1962	"These articles were given as papers at one of the best attended panels of the 1962 ASPA National Conference which considered an eleven-year-old adolescent, electronic data processing. In what activities is this youth engaged? How rapidly is he maturing? What will he be like when he reaches maturity? How can we guide his growth to maturity? Answers to questions like these, whether in relation to human beings or to an instrument of organization and management, are, at best, educated guesses. The crystal gazing, hard-headed evaluation, and simple descriptions of experience included in this symposium should help us reach those educated guesses. What will we say in ten years? What will be the result of our actions based on these educated guesses: a juvenile delinquent or a useful citizen?"
10.2307_973629	1961	What is the state of the public personnel profession? The author in this article puts the developments in this profession into perspective with a brief review of the failures and achievements of the last thirty years and then lays out a challenging agenda for public personnel in the Sixties.
10.2307_973928	1966	"The Permanent Under Secretary has been a key figure in British administration for more than a century. The formal responsibilities attached to the position have not changed significantly. However, the education and experience, as well as the social and economic backgrounds, have slowly been changing, probably in reflection of change in the British society."
10.2307_973485	1966	"A great part of the study of problems of governmental fragmentation in metropolitan areas has been directed to local government restructuring and consolidation. Less attention has been given to the role of the Federal and State governments in overcoming the consequences of fragmentation. The author here focuses on this vertical dimension of intergovernmental relations by (a) describing how Federal and State governments are playing an increasing and essential role in encouraging action which meets the criteria of geographic adequacy to perform services, economies of scale, equitable financing, and political accountability, which are the real goals of sound local government in metropolitan areas, and (b) identifying areas for improved Federal and State practice to achieve these objectives."
10.2307_973453	1964	"Reorganization studies during the past thirty years have been conforming to an almost predictable pattern both as to the nature of the recommendations submitted and the results achieved. The insignificant progress being made as a result of these studies suggests that perhaps the proposals are not related sufficiently to programs, are not imaginative enough to cope with modern complexities, and represent merely a futile exercise in trying to achieve a neat but sterile administrative structure. The author concludes that reorganization must be a continuing process and not an act of periodic political upheaval."
10.2307_974208	1973	"In recent years the United Kingdom has perfected a program budgeting system that appears to be thoughtfully tailored to the existing incentive structure of key elements in government. To provide cabinet and ministers with better analytic information or alternatives and to provide a process for coherent decision making by the various ministries, a three-legged decision-making system has evolved. The Public Expenditure Survey, the Programme Analysis and Review, and the Central Policy Review under Loard Rothschild make up the fulcrum on which budget decision making rests, and with this, the implementation of what the government preceives to be the country's objectives. This three-pronged attack appears to have strengthened overall planning and facilitates making corrective decisions in the spirit of the general strategy that is supposed to underlie them. In addition, the central government budgeting for local governments appears to be improved."
10.2307_974148	1967	"Very recently, increasing interest has been shown in cross-cultural and cross-national examination of local administration. While studies of national administration have continued to flourish, much attention has also been focused on cities, towns, regions, field units, and other subnational areas. Administrative as well as economic, sociological, and political perspectives are evidenced in publications, conferences, meetings, technical co-operation work, and even graduate-level courses. The author explores the reasoning employed in developing one such graduate course and examines in general the emerging interest in comparative local administration."
10.2307_973166	1963	"Misunderstanding, and even hostility, in staffline relations is the result when there is a general failure to understand how the role of each group is seen by the members of those groups. This article reports what staff men say are their chief satisfactions and dissatisfactions; how they feel their work is seen by others, measured, and evaluated; how they evaluate the importance of their work; and how they try to solve the problems they face."
10.2307_974906	1974	"Much like the wider American society, the U. S. armed forces witnessed numerous racial incidents in the late 1960s within its ranks. How has the Department of Defense sought to cope with its crisis on the racial front? The article outlines several major efforts undertaken by DOD within the last two years to deal with racial turmoil, particularly in the special problem areas related to the distribution of non-white service personnel, off-base housing, and the military system of justice. The author points up several possible future trends regarding military race relations, trends that are sometimes contradictory and not always optimistic."
10.2307_973943	1962	The application of long-range planning and programming and program evaluation in our Military Assistance Program is described in this article. These new and valuable tools help control the vast world-wide operations of the Military Assistance Program and insure that these operations are consistent with broad national policy objectives of the United States. The planning-programming-budgeting portion of the foundation of good administration in the Federal government is strengthened by the addition of one more building block.
10.2307_973229	1970	"The 1968 Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act is the federal government's first major bloc grant to state and local governments, and it provides an opportunity to examine this approach to federal grant-in-aid assistance. As one of the first bloc grant programs enacted by Congress, the Safe Streets Act has caused controversy among the representatives of the cities and the states over the role of state governments in administering federal assistance. It has also created tensions between federal officials and state planners over the appropriate amount of federal authority in administration of a bloc grant program. Although the goals of the bloc grants include simplification of intergovernmental relations and reduction of federal dominance, the law enforcement program is complex because each of the major participants strives to gain or maintain control over the allocation of funds. Since the Nixon Administration favors use of bloc grants, the experiences with this program deserve serious attention and may suggest future patterns of intergovernmental relations in other grant fields."
10.2307_973824	1962	"These articles were given as papers at one of the best attended panels of the 1962 ASPA National Conference which considered an eleven-year-old adolescent, electronic data processing. In what activities is this youth engaged? How rapidly is he maturing? What will he be like when he reaches maturity? How can we guide his growth to maturity? Answers to questions like these, whether in relation to human beings or to an instrument of organization and management, are, at best, educated guesses. The crystal gazing, hard-headed evaluation, and simple descriptions of experience included in this symposium should help us reach those educated guesses. What will we say in ten years? What will be the result of our actions based on these educated guesses: a juvenile delinquent or a useful citizen?"
10.2307_973563	1964	"The author turns to the East for the genesis of management theory. He finds in the life of an oriental philosopher turned ""management consultant"" the seed and the exposition of many traditional management concepts."
10.2307_975020	1971	"In recent years federal employees in the United States have drifted into a state of relative liberation. This has largely been the result of legal and judicial activities, political efforts, and the development of a new militancy on the part of federal employees themselves. The liberation has occurred without any ideological rationale or distinguishing rhetoric of any kind, but nevertheless may have far-reaching consequences for the political system. On the one hand, it represents an extension of democracy through the creation of greater political equality, the encouragement of public enlightenment and informed voting, and the establishment of greater sociological representativeness and procedural democracy in the federal bureaucracy. On the other hand, however, it presents a significant problem for the maintenance of democracy, because it reduces the degree to which the bureaucracy can be dominated by institutions of popular control. It is concluded, therefore, that greater consideration should be given to the issue, and an attempt be made to reach a desirable balance."
10.2307_974003	1965	"Amidst the general depreciation of progress in in specific processes of organization, Luther Gulick finds us still lacking a synthesis of theory capable of translation into a new technology. Approaches to this theory are through (1) the function of administration, (2) the policy planning process in administration, and (3) a more valid concept of our politico-administrative system. To make this system vivid, Gulick draws on a lesson learned from President Franklin Delano Roosevelt during the early days of our Social Security system."
10.2307_974309	1973	"Recognizing and responding to technical as well as social changes is an important part of the public administrator's job. Changing technology and social linkages require changes in the behavior and structure of government organizations. An awareness of likely future problems and opportunities is needed to manage present problems properly. This article discusses the likely nature of governance problems that may be expected within the next 30 to 40 years, grouped around four principal themes: (1) governmental adaptability and the pace of change; (2) recognizing social and technical changes and their impacts; (3) increasing conflict among traditional goals; and (4) social structures for decision making and governance. Material in this article was originally prepared as a presentation to the Resource Development Internship Project 1972 seminar at Lincoln, Nebraska, on July 14-15, 1972."
10.2307_973820	1962	"One of the most confusing aspects of current public administration is the apparent gap between the way practitioners view organization and the way a large number of the teachers and researchers view organization. The wedge between these two points of view seems to be the impact of the findings of the social science research of the past two or three decades on the selection of what factors are important in understanding organization and administration. Presented here is a discussion of this issue by individuals talking to one another, perhaps, across a chasm. The reader can judge whether there actually is a chasm; if so, how deep it is and whether it can be bridged."
10.2307_975202	1975	"Incrementalism has been employed as a general concept to describe policy making, but several difficulties have arisen in its application to budgeting. Specifically, analysts have not distinguished between bargaining processes and incremental results or outputs (i. e., small changes from a given base). Rather, it is assumed that bargaining processes necessarily produce incremental outputs. This assumption in turn has created a second difficulty: the lack of specific criteria to distinguish incremental from nonincremental outputs. The work of several authors is examined to illustrate the logical and analytical problems encountered when the distinction between process and output is not observed. Generally, scholars have slighted data in their own work indicating evidence of nonincremental outputs. Illustrative budgetary data are provided to demonstrate the incidence of apparently nonincremental budgetary outputs and the obvious need to refine further the concept for empirical research."
10.2307_974540	1975	"Five paradigms of public administration are sketched in an effort to indicate that the notion of public administration as a unique, synthesizing field is relatively new. The discipline is conceived as an amalgam of organization theory, management science, and the concept of the public interest. It is suggested that it is time for public administration to establish itself as an institutionally autonomous enterprise in colleges and universities in order to retain its social relevance and worth."
10.2307_3110378	1979	"Policy analysts should exercise caution in using survey data on citizen satisfaction with local services to measure governmental performance. Responses to survey items asking citizens how satisfied they are with specific local services, or asking them to evaluate service performance, may not reflect the actual service government provides. Also, difficult statistical and conceptual problems often invalidate using such data to evaluate local services. Nevertheless, subjective data like citizen satisfaction may yet have some use in policy-making."
10.2307_975740	1981	"This paper discusses how cross-sectional and longitudinal models of budgeting are complementary but distinct. A number of concepts are appropriate to both, yet the substantive meaning of a concept may differ in its cross-sectional and longitudinal operationalizations. Sharkansky's cross-sectional research on state budgeting strategy and a longitudinal analysis of state budgeting strategy are compared. Both similarities and differences in empirical findings are identified. Budgeting strategy has historical and contemporary components which ought not to be confused."
10.2307_975499	1978	"Concern about government productivity has focused attention on the institutional structure through which local government services are delivered. Many different structural arrangements can be found. For example, local governments provide services through their own public employees, but they also contract for services from other governments and from private firms. The latter also sell services directly to residents under exclusive franchises and under competitive conditions. A conceptual framework and taxonomy for defining and classifying the numerous institutional structures is needed to study their relative efficiency and effectiveness. A general-purpose framework is developed and is illustrated by application to solid-waste management services. Important policy issues that can be addressed using this framework are identified."
10.2307_974281	1975	"This article has two related objectives: (1) to determine whether judicial innovations are part of a general state propensity to innovate, and (2) to assess the effectiveness of one of these innovations, the office of state court administrator. Four of nine judicial reforms were associated with an innovation orientation, two with commitment to criminal justice and need for services (crime rate), but none with ability to afford criminal justice services. In disentangling these relationships, it was determined that states with high crime rates spend a larger portion of their general revenue budgets on criminal justice. This commitment to criminal justice is likely to result in the establishment of an office of state court administrator, and a consequence of this innovation is that the judiciary receives an advantage in the competition for the criminal justice dollar. Although most effective in states which have a unified court system, this office is an effective representative for the judiciary in all states."
10.2307_974582	1976	"Despite claims that the practice of public administration is or can become a professional activity, this article argues that it lacks the hallmarks of a true profession and has little chance of becoming one. The public service, however, has become professionalized, not because of the contributions of the field of public administration, but rather because those from science and the professions have come to dominate its upper levels. This dominance, and the lack of professional stature of public administration, the author suggests, have some important implications for schools of public affairs and administration."
10.2307_975134	1976	"The genesis and development of a local community organization are analyzed to reveal the relationship between goal setting during planning and goal displacement in implementation. The community's goals were formulated in a highly participative planning process, which concluded with the establishment of the neighborhood organization to pursue their realization. But this process did not give equal weight to the future availability of resources. This, combined with the dynamics of organizational growth and differentiation, led to the development of those programs for which resources were available, giving lower priority to the community's original objectives. ""Resource-oriented goal displacement"" is the name given to this phenomenon, which is probably not unique. The implication is that participative planning needs an equal consideration of ends and means, and goal-setting alone becomes a self defeating process."
10.2307_975720	1981	"This study investigates the organizational events that must occur for a new practice to become routinized. Concern with routinization has in the past been overlooked by researchers, who have tended to focus on the initial stages of innovation- e. g., adoption and implementation-rather than on the later stages. Yet, the ultimate goal of a successful innovative practice should be the establishment of the practice as a routine and normal part of agency operations. Based on the tracing of life histories of innovations in 109 municipal agencies (fire, police, and school departments), the study provides concrete clues regarding the necessary organizational events-and the strategies needed to achieve such events-in order for routinization to occur."
10.2307_976038	1978	"Due to prevailing capital formation problems and a scarcity of financial resources, many state and municipal governments have found it increasingly difficult to acquire funds to finance facilities and equipment. Such an environment has prompted public officials to seek alternatives to borrowing. This paper examines the institutional and managerial dimensions of one such alternative: the financial lease-which enables the municipality to indirectly employ private sector funds. The economics of lease rate setting are explored, wherein it is demonstrated how financial leases can provide net benefits to tax exempt institutions. A viable, yet simple, lease evaluation model is then presented, and extended to conditions of uncertainty. Finally, a new leasing concept is introduced in the form of a tax arbitrage lease-a financing procedure that addresses lease-or-buy (for cash) questions, rather than lease-or-borrow decisions. Throughout, the paper attempts to establish the economic vitality of municipal leasing."
10.2307_975502	1978	"A survey of middle and upper level public administrator-professionals probes the differences between men and women in relation to professional commitment and attitudes toward authority. Traditionally the social science literature has suggested that women occupy inferior positions within large organizations because they are less professional and more amenable to authority and dependent than men. The study finds, however, that women rank higher on measures of professionalism and are less committed to hierarchical authority than men. The author concludes that there has been a significant change in female attitudes in these areas in the very recent past and that continued sexual stereotyping can only lead to higher levels of frustration among female public employees."
10.2307_3110259	1980	"Research on urban administrative leadership mainly focuses on city managers to the exclusion of mayors. However, evidence abounds, in the United States and other countries, that mayors are also administrative leaders by virtue of their frequent involvement in the administrative details of service delivery. This article examines the relationship between mayors and urban administrators in general, and in Thailand in particular. For urban administrators who are in the middle, the administrative role of mayor is often one of political ""interference"" which results in tensions and conflicts between elected and appointed officials. For mayors who are supposed to be on top, life with administrators has its limitations. The article analyzes these phenomena in relation to the politics/administration dichotomy as well as in reference to empirical data on the mayor-manager relationship in Thailand."
10.2307_975643	1982	"The nature of legitimate and proper government involvement in the field of energy is widely disputed today. Four separate paradigms or models of government-market interaction with respect to energy are identified and briefly outlined. Two paradigms (the energy policy and the energy free-market) represent the ideological underpinnings of two U. S. administrations. The other two paradigms (energy mobilization and energy nationalization) have remained outside the mainstream of government philosophy, although popular with individuals and/or groups. It may never be possible to clearly or ideally delineate state and federal government energy roles until greater ideological consensus is achieved. Although the current administration is moving in one direction, many states remain committed to the policy paradigm of the previous administration."
10.2307_975851	1983	"David Morgan and Kenneth Meier's recent studies have reported the reputations of M. P. A. programs among academics and among practitioners. They suggested that reputation may be influenced by the number of students graduating from a program as well as by the accomplishments of those students. This research contrasts the reputational rankings of academics and practitioners with program rankings for the number of students awarded Presidential Management Internships (PMIs). With a few exceptions, most of the programs producing the most PMIs were those which had ranked highest in general reputation. Using the number of M. P. A. s graduated in 1980-81 as the measure of program size, it was found that many of the largest programs had not ranked high-either in Morgan and Meier's surveys or in PMI successes. Program size alone is clearly not the primary reason for program reputations."
10.2307_975504	1978	"The role of the United States General Accounting Office has changed considerably since its creation by the Budget and Accounting Act of 1921. During its first thirty years the GAO primarily concentrated on voucher audits. In the second half of the 1940's the GAO shifted its emphasis to ""comprehensive"" auditing, or audits which convered managerial efficiency as well as expenditure legality. During the past decade the GAO has reoriented its efforts again, this time toward what is termed ""program"" auditing. GAO entry into the area of programatic review has come about as a result of the urging of some members of Congress. It is also the product of the orientation of the current Comptroller General, Elmer Staats. The shift in GAO activity, however, is not welcomed by everyone. Traditionalists in the GAO argue that many program areas are not suitable for cost/benefit analysis. They also fear dealing with controversial political issues will cause the GAO to become a political target. There has been a good deal of resistance to change from within the GAO. Many in Congress are also reluctant to see marked change in the GAO's role. Some objections parallel those voiced by GAO traditionalists. Others include concern over loss of GAO objectivity, committee jealousies, and discontent with GAO claims to semi-independent status. Congress should attempt to clearly establish the role it wishes the GAO to play. Congress and the GAO should consider whether the new, diverse, and controversial roles possibly threaten the ability of the GAO to carry out its still valid and valuable functions as a fiscal and management auditor."
10.2307_974820	1977	"Human services integration has many possible operational meanings, including structural changes - whether involving some further centralization of authority or not - and changes in the character of services or their manner of delivery. Discussions of human services integration frequently assume a causal relationship between structural changes and service delivery that is integrated from the client's perspective. This assumption serves the political interests of those groups who seek to extend managerial control over a fragmented and pluralistic structure of human services agencies and professions. A more careful definition of human services integration will leave the way open to empirical testing of the relationships between specific structural changes and the character of the services provided."
10.2307_976092	1982	"The article reports a survey of public administration extension activities by American colleges and universities in terms of Frederick Mosher's observation of a dynamic interaction between education and society. The article discusses the general characteristics and scope of public administration activities in terms of activities, operations, size of programs, and faculty, to show college and universities' response to the perceived needs of society. This is documented with tables showing survey results. The article discusses how organizational characteristics of educational institutions relate to public administration extension activities. Finally, the impact of public administration extension activities upon educational institutions is discussed."
10.2307_975200	1975	"There is considerable evidence that the United States Foreign Service officer corps does not constitute a cross section of the American population; in fact, it does not constitute a cross section of white, male, college-educated Americans. It is alleged that the elite composition of the Service affects the American foreign affairs process. Actually, there is no statistically significant relationship between several personal background characteristics of Foreign Service officers and FSO career satisfaction, international-mindedness, or psychological flexibility. It appears unlikely that Foreign Service elitism has any impact upon the conduct of U. S. foreign affairs."
10.2307_3110311	1980	"For reasons both democratic and utilitarian, citizen evaluations of municipal services have recently attracted considerable attention. This paper argues that such evaluations can play a significant role in contemporary municipal administration. A model of the citizen service evaluation and response process is presented and tested with data gathered from a recent survey of urban citizens. Three major implications of this research for public managers responsible for the delivery of essential urban services are delineated. These include: (1) continued pressure for direct citizen input into the administrative process is likely because citizens consider access a mechanism for redressing past grievances; (2) when attempting to cope with service dissatisfaction, strategies automatically targeting particular socioeconomic groups for compensatory treatment may be ineffectual; and (3) if a municipal agency is performing optimally, yet citizens believe otherwise, a recitation of the facts through appropriate communications channels with the public may be the only option available for attenuating negative perceptions."
10.2307_976108	1980	"Social agency chief executives in six program areas-welfare, health, mental health, community action, model cities, and community mental health centers-were surveyed to determine their reaction to the recent revenue sharing/block grant efforts to decentralize the federal aid system. Despite their strong belief that social initiatives and values were advanced principally by federal action, and that excessive reliance on state and local officials could severely jeopardize social programs with weak constituencies, agency executives also recognized major weaknesses in traditional categorical grant policy and, to varying degrees, supported revenue sharing and block grant alternatives. Those agencies largely dependent on federal support for their survival-model cities, community action programs, and community mental health centers- tended to support the new aid efforts only reluctantly. Those agencies more fully integrated into the regular policy-making arrangements of local government-health, welfare, and mental health agencies-were considerably more positive in their endorsement of greater decentralization."
10.2307_975917	1983	"Bureaucratic work and bureaucratic procedures often produce mismatches between legislative intent and bureaucratic outcomes. This occurs for reasons the public and some critics often misunderstand. Particularly when bureaucrats are the recipients of what we have called fuzzy charges, the criteria by which operations are judged are often too severe to be a fair test, given the difficulties inherent in administering such vague marching orders. Furthermore we feel it is important to emphasize that the charges bureaucracies receive can range across a broad continuum anchored in very fuzzy and very crisp extremes. When charges to a bureaucracy repeatedly tend toward one or another of these extremes, significant changes in organizational practices and style should be expected. These changes affect not only the internal workings of the bureaucracy, but also the types of outcomes the bureaucracy will produce. We have sought to suggest that as a consequence of these circumstances, genuine understanding of the pressures under which bureaucrats operate must include some appreciation of the conditions that can produce strategic as well as sincere misreading of communications between bureaucrats and legislators. Even strategic misunderstanding can sometimes be motivated by sincere commitment to faithful maximization of larger assigned values."
10.2307_975341	1977	"The success or failure of a contracted evaluation study is determined, to a great extent, by the characteristics of the request for proposals (RFP). It is only through extensive experience that we are learning what a good evaluation study RFP should look like. A number of the required characteristics apparently are at odds with what many government officials naturally think of, and thus many evaluation studies are doomed even before the first potential contractor begins work on a proposal. This article summarizes much observation and experience into ten ""helpful hints."" They are intended to be useful to the government official who must prepare or approve an RFP. They do not require special analytical expertise nor the authority to redesign programs. More importantly, they do not require any additional time or resources."
10.2307_976292	1978	"Data from a research program carried out at Cornell University demonstrate that in Asian countries where small farmers are grouped into locally accountable membership organizations, rural development as measured by composite indicators of productivity, welfare, and income distribution proceeded at a much more rapid rate than in countries where small farmers are not effectively organized. Constituency organizations permit small farmers to interact more productively with service-providing bureaucracies of government, to exercise influence over the behavior of locally based administrative personnel, to assert claims on government, and to provide mutual assistance. Effective and sustained constituency organization among the poor is difficult to achieve, however, and usually requires government sponsorship and support which will not be forthcoming unless government elites are interested in expanding their support base and are prepared to deal with a mobilized peasantry. On the basis of limited available evidence from the U. S., we hypothesize that non-routine public services cannot be effectively provided to socially and economically marginal publics unless these publics are organized. In the design and implementation of service delivery programs targeted to the poor, constituency organization must be considered an integral component of the administrative infra-structure in industrialized as well as in developing countries."
10.2307_976328	1983	"This article deals with the major change in American law concerning awards of attorneys' fees against governmental units in civil rights cases. This change has been brought about by congressional action in the Civil Rights Attorney's Fees Awards Act of 1976 and judicial decisions abrogating governmental immunity from damages and fee awards. Federal appellate decisions interpreting the act are analyzed in terms of awards of fees to successful plaintiffs and successful defendants, computation of fees, exceptions to the normal expectation of an award of fees, the special case of pro se litigants, and the impact on the filing of civil rights suits. The article concludes that successful plaintiffs in civil rights cases almost always win awards of attorney's fees against governmental unit defendants, that such defendants almost never secure awards of fees against unsuccessful plaintiffs, that fees are normally computed by a simple hourly total multiplied by counsel's ""going rate,"" that pro se litigants are not entitled to fees, and that while the act per se had no discernible impact on the number of civil rights cases filed, the Supreme Court's abrogation of local governmental immunity from damages under 42 U. S. C. ??1983 in the Monell and Owen cases has led to a dramatic increase in such filings which may also include awards of attorneys' fees against governmental units. Because of the change in the law concerning fee awards, it is suggested that public administrators must consider the potential monetary loss in fees (in addition to damages) in decision making and that insurance coverage should be reviewed to be certain that attorneys' fees awards are included."
10.2307_975942	1979	Consultants face tremendous challenges in attempting to work for the public sector. Some of these difficulties result from the reasons consultants are sought and from the manner in which consultants are used. Consultants seek to do the best job possible. The probability of this occurring depends upon the consultant and the public agency having a better understanding of each other's needs and constraints.
10.2307_974707	1977	"This article describes force field analysis as a planning technique. It arose out of the authors' experience in determining organizational direction to insure survival amidst upcoming changes in the local health care delivery system. To date, the organization has successfully implemented the proposed changes and has evolved into an umbrella agency providing general behavioral health services."
10.2307_975680	1978	"Most approaches to national development planning presuppose fairly centralized policy direction and a strategy of intensive investment of capital and technology. In contrast, the author argues that the vast resources of most undeveloped nations lie in their un- and under-utilized manpower, simple skills, and local materials. This resource often is overlooked because of difficulties in mobilizing it on a national scale. The author proposes an approach to national development that can draw directly on these massive local resources but that at the same time preserves local initiative and autonomy."
10.2307_974761	1975	"Citizens and citizen groups are becoming more involved in decision making and policy debates on the nation's public lands. Through public hearings, letter writing and lobbying, and court action, pressures have been brought to bear on the Forest Service, Bureau of Land Management, and the Park Service, which have prime responsibility for our 725 million acres of public land. Interconnections between resource uses and political conflicts over resource use mean that administrators cannot produce decisions that will satisfy all potential users of public resources. To improve responsiveness of decisions, agencies have developed several systems of public participation. These range from newsletters, to advisory boards, through complex formal systems using workshops, meetings, and hearings to elicit public preferences. Advances in computer technology may present further opportunities for exploring public preferences. All of these approaches will provide experience useful in designing future public participation programs and improving existing ones."
10.2307_974822	1977	"Using the notion that teachers and administrators in the field of public administration have some desire to contribute to the literature in the field, the authors analyzed ten volumes of the Public Administration Review to determine whether certain institutions are dominant in this particular publication. Only articles were considered and a page count was compiled to the nearest fourth. Twenty-five colleges and universities were identified which have contributed the largest number of pages to the Review during the years 1966 to 1975. Other data were included which identified college and university contributors according to five-year blocks within this ten-year period. Non-academic contributors such as government agencies, consultants, and institutes were also considered by the study. No attempt was made to rank the contributors, and the data in this article should not be viewed as being judgmental."
10.2307_975848	1983	"This article draws attention to the need to learn more about why and how significant changes are made in the implementation of a law. Implementation change, or as suggested by the title of this article, redirecting the implementation of a law, has been largely ignored in the implementation literature. This paper attempts to fill this gap in our knowledge by focusing on the ongoing effort by the Reagan administration to redirect the implementation of the federal coal surface mining act (P. L. 95-87). Finally, the article outlines several management implications that, in light of the coal surface mining case experience, might provide guidance to public managers who find it necessary or desirable to redirect the implementation of a program."
10.2307_3110078	1981	"Budgets and budget manuals from 123 large American cities were examined to determine the degree to which goal setting and performance assessment have been formally incorporated into municipal budgeting. A majority of cities require agencies to state goals, but in no more than half the cases are those goals useful standards of performance. Most cities also require workload indicators to be submitted with agency budget requests. In addition, more than 40 percent of these cities require measures of effectiveness, and about one-third attempt to measure the efficiency of their agencies' operations."
10.2307_974280	1975	"The request to identify low priority programs is a very real one. It comes with regularity to administrators at all levels in government. This article is cast in the form of a hypothetical memorandum replying to an equally hypothetical request from the Federal Domestic Council, over the President's signature. In this case, the fictitious administrator has taken it upon himself to explain the problems he has with the request. Such a reply probably would be deemed unresponsive from an operational standpoint. However, the purpose of the memorandum is to give some insights into the problems of identifying low priority programs. As will become clear, such identification is not a short-run undertaking, but involves major changes, particularly in the way programs are designed, how their objectives are articulated, and how resources are spent on evaluation. The latter are generally too few and of too short a duration to get at the substance of the low priority issue."
10.2307_976088	1982	"The authors examine the resurgence of the states as political actors in the American federal system through an analysis of radioactive waste management. In this policy field, and others which involve complex issues, indecisive federal responses, and perceptions of inequity, national-state conflicts are increasing, calling into doubt the conventional model of cooperative federalism and raising the possibility of a new era of ""contentious federalism."""
10.2307_974330	1977	"While the term human relations has fallen into disuse today, aspects of this tradition persist in many approaches to ""humanize"" organizations. In this article organizational humanist assumptions about the motivation of employees and their desire for participation are analyzed and assessed in relation to empirical studies. A typology of models of participation is also developed to compare and evaluate workable methods of participation in organizations with the more idealistic alternatives offered by advocates of humanistic management. The data indicates that organizational humanists may be overstating the utility and benefits derived from increased worker participation in organizational decision making; and their belief in the necessity for workers to self-actualize in their jobs is predicated upon assumptions which seem to ignore the influence that social class has on the motivations of employees."
10.2307_974188	1975	"Analysis-primarily economic analysis of social policies-often is presented to non-analyst decision makers as if it were purely objective. The methodology and perspectives implicit in such analysis, however, are products of a world view that has political effects. That world view can be thought of as ideological. Although good analysts recognize the limitations of an overwhelmingly economic perspective, many analysts act as if they have a monopoly on truth and rationality. Many analysts fail to deal with the limitations of their techniques. Mid-career training to develop greater ""theoretical self-consciousness"" is one way that might encourage analysis that will be useful and actually used."
10.2307_3109920	1979	"Can measurable, objective criteria for governmental reorganization be developed? If the purpose of the reorganization is specified, then objective criteria can be developed, operationalized and tested. These procedures will substantially improve the information available to the decision maker. Although this approach does not yield ""principles of administration,"" it does follow the first of those principles-scientific methodology. This approach is illustrated by a study of New York City administration. Reorganization was proposed to eliminate uncoordinated interdependence among field services. To test the necessity of reorganization, I have measured the extent of interdependence and its impact upon agency performance. The pattern of interdependence among agencies is then isolated, suggesting methods of grouping functions to minimize interdependence."
10.2307_974743	1976	"The study examines the critical issues involved in government centralization and decentralization. The analysis is based upon the premise that values, tasks, and organizational structure should be interrelated in an effective organization. Therefore, decisions affecting centralization or decentralization should be based upon and made only after a thorough study of the economic, political, and administrative characteristics unique to the organization in question. The administrator who is considering centralization or decentralization of a function should be completely familiar with all of its characteristics and select the course which will optimize resource allocation and performance, and offer the highest degree of flexibility to permit adjustments in values and functions."
10.2307_976330	1983	"Public administrative theory contains at least three distinctive approaches. These can be labeled ""managerial,"" ""political,"" and ""legal."" Each has relatively separate origins, emphasizes different values, promotes different organizational structures, and views individuals in different terms. These three approaches reflect the constitutional separation of powers, which has tended to collapse into the administrative branch as a consequence of the rise of the contemporary administrative state. The development of a more coherent body of public administrative theory must recognize the utility of each of these approaches as they apply to various aspects of administration. The experience of practitioners, who are often perforce compelled to integrate these approaches on the job, can be an invaluable guide to such theory-building."
10.2307_975706	1981	"It is generally thought that across-the-board tax limits, while encouraging fiscal restraint, create hardships for jurisdictions with above average and uncontrollable needs. Because of the recent imposition of most limits, the conclusion is difficult to confirm empirically. This article provides a test of the conclusion based on a study of New York State city school districts where limits long in effect were suspended between 1970 and 1978 because of unusual local behavior and legislative action. Because some, but not all, districts took advantage of legislatively granted authority to tax beyond their limit, an empirical investigation can be used to explain this behavior. The results of the analysis, which show that low ability to pay, low inter-governmental grants, and high needs account for much of the behavior of districts that exceed limits, are helpful in designing flexible tax limits."
10.2307_3110470	1979	"We are often told that ""To manage is to control."" This phrase fuses two different concepts into synonymy. The bulk of the writing on management-control makes it evident that this construct is not a conjunction of two classes of administrative behavior. It is employed to exclude a distinguishable management function. In the language-in-use, the managerial function is exhausted by the concept of control. This is associated with elaborate technical routines, and an extraordinary emphasis on mechanical methods. In examining management curricula and practice, it is reasonable to conclude that all a good manager has to do is to learn a set of control procedures and insure that these are complied with. But control is a function of knowledge, and in uncertain environments knowledge often does not exist. It is necessary therefore, to manage, i.e., assume more flexible responses than are possible in a rigid control mode. The article examines the implications of the management/control confusion as an analogue to Type II statistical error."
10.2307_974843	1976	"This article holds that intersystem planning frequently is doomed to be little more than a pseudo-scientific ceremony because political, organizational, and personal career imperatives have either not been met, or are severely threatened by intersystem planning. It is maintained that these imperatives must be met within the context of legal, economic, and social-psychological constraints."
10.2307_3110312	1980	"Planners have been introducing a greater degree of discretion into land use decisions through the use of flexible zoning techniques as a means of improving the traditional system of land use regulation. But this has been a cause for concern and planners are also calling for the preparation of rules to limit discretion. One proposal that has gained attention is the preparation of a comprehensive plan to provide a firm basis for land use decisions and a requirement that zoning be consistent with that plan. This article reviews the process of policy formation, the role of discretion in land use planning, and the purpose of the land use plan to arrive at an operational alternative to the comprehensive plan. A framework is suggested as a starting point in designing the land use plan to serve as a management tool in the process of interaction on land use issues."
10.2307_976332	1983	"Management by objectives (MBO) probably remains the most important and widespread governmental management system. But like most management systems, MBO has a high failure rate and is particularly vulnerable during its first few years. This paper examines the crucial first five years of MBO's experience in HEW/HHS. It finds that MBO shifted power to the secretary's office, in part by documenting a ""cycle of failure"" for subordinates and by lessening the influence of outside groups. This paper argues the normative case for welcoming such a shift. In addition, these MBO-produced power shifts interact with secretarial personality to affect the likelihood of the system's institutionalization and success. There are few real incentives for a departmental secretary to establish and use a management system. However if the secretary's personality causes him or her to value internal power, this ""side benefit"" provided by MBO is often reason enough to install and use it; society in turn gains increased program efficiency and effectiveness. Other personality influences and side benefits are briefly discussed."
10.2307_975498	1978	"Making an optimum decision in public policy analysis refers to maximizing quantitatively measured goals subject to various constraints and conditions. Such optimizing mainly consists of either optimum choice situations where the alternatives involve discrete categories, or optimum mix and level situations where the alternative decisions fit on a continuum of possibilities. Optimum choice situations include those not involving contingent events such as whether to provide counsel for the poor in criminal cases through volunteer counsel, assigned counsel, a public defender, or some combination of the three. They also include choices where the benefits depend on a contingent event such as whether or not to declare a defendant eligible for free counsel contingent on the probability that the defendant really cannot afford a lawyer. A related example of an optimum level situation might involve determining what level of money to appropriate for a public defender's office in a given county, where going too high or too low might be undesirable. A related optimum mix problem might be what mix of available budget money to allocate between the public defender's office and the prosecutor's office. The purpose of this paper is to discuss some general matters concerning how to arrive at an optimum choice, level, or mix when confronted with alternative public policy decisions, especially decisions relating to the legal process. The presentation is largely verbal but an appendix is included in which the basic principles are reduced to a series of formulas that are relatively simple to apply with current desk calculators and computer programs for handling nonlinear regression analysis and the solving of non-linear simultaneous equations. Even without hard data, the concepts and formulas can be helpful in providing a framework for thinking about solutions to public policy problems."
10.2307_974587	1976	"The use of social indicators in policy decision-making systems as well as more descriptive analysis of societal well-being is investigated. The concept of ""quality of life"" as a tool of comparative social indicators research is analyzed. Inter-city comparisons of objective and subjective measures of well-being are presented and the distinctiveness of these two dimensions of the quality of life is documented. The article concludes with some observations on the implications that this distinctiveness has for the use of the concept ""quality of life"" in future social indicators research."
10.2307_974863	1977	"This article addresses the problem of the lack of interaction between military administration and public administration. The author argues that the two fields are indeed compatible and that there is a definite need for more interchange between them. The major causes for this lack of interaction lie with both the military and public administrators. The author describes three such causes: the military's adoption of business techniques for planning and efficiency and its reliance on private industry; the supposed uniqueness of the military profession; and lack of interest on the part of public administrators. The mutuality of the two fields is demonstrated not only by the implicit allusions by public administration as a field to the relevance of the military to itself, but also by means of specific examples of mutual interest. The author concludes by advocating a more appropriate orientation of military administration than its present ""business"" orientation. ""Is not military administration public administration?"" he asks."
10.2307_976122	1982	"Allocation formula design presents technical as well as political difficulties. This paper presents a non-technical discussion of technical issues in formula design. The issues include proxy variables, updating of indicators, small-area estimates, communication between statisticians and legislators, formula complexity, variable redundancy, tiered allocation formulas, eligibility criteria, choice of data, and evaluation of allocation formulas."
10.2307_975798	1981	"This article examines the employment-related aspects of welfare reform in light of recent research findings on the implementation of the Work Incentive (WIN) program, the current welfare-employment program. The authors contend that nine lessons can be learned from the WIN research that should be applied to the future design and development of welfare-employment programs, whether or not welfare reform legislation is enacted. The lessons are summarized as follows: ? Expectations should not be raised about radically reducing dependency. ? Program achievements will be significantly affected by socioeconomic factors. ? Program management matters. ? Certain types of employment services and delivery techniques are more effective than others. ? The nature of linkages to social service agencies will influence program effectiveness. ? There should be joint planning, funding and decision making by employment and social service agencies at the federal, state and local level. ? The resource allocation process should include performance incentives. ? There should be frequent, structured monitoring of program implementation by federal representatives. ? Lateral communication and information-sharing across administrators and operators in different localities and regions is crucial to effective federal administration."
10.2307_975976	1982	"State governments are following the federal lead in establishing procedures for comprehensive review of regulatory policies and programs. The search for review procedures has been stimulated by the political salience of demands for reform. Because reform of regulation is a sensitive and somewhat misunderstood topic, and given that reform is often perceived as a highly partisan issue, this study attempts to define the terms reform and review clearly and to distinguish one from the other. It also briefly identifies alternatives for review available to state governments. The principal focus of the study is to describe and analyze legal and procedural review of regulation as implemented in California by the Office of Administrative Law. Conclusions are provided on the strengths and weaknesses of legal and administrative review, and possible applications for the federal government."
10.2307_975672	1978	"Regulatory agencies in the health and safety area suffer from a credibility gap caused by a perceived lack of professional expertise and adequate input in decision making by consumer and industry interests. To resolve these problems the Food and Drug Administration has resorted to advisory committees made up of health professionals as well as consumer and industry representatives. This study reports findings from questionnaires administered to advisory committee members and from interviews with staff and interest group officials. Respondents were favorable to the system. Advisory committee recommendations were regarded to be based on scientific and expert information; agency staff were seen as competent to assimilate recommendations; and committee advice was regarded as the basis for agency decisions. The major criticism of the system was ineffectiveness of consumer representation. The study offers a recommendation for consumer groups to attain the legitimacy needed to interact with health scientists and industry representatives. The system, however, merits continuation."
10.2307_974508	1977	"This article focuses on urban interest groups as bureaucratic organizations. The author examines staff attitudes and behavior and finds that a great deal of attention must be directed toward the non-lobbying wants and needs of the members. However, for various reasons of organizational maintenance, lobbying is a most important benefit that these groups must provide. The explanation for this is administratively far more complex than traditional theories of interest groups behavior would lead us to believe."
10.2307_975501	1978	"Substantial concern has been voiced that the union-management relationship in government serves partisan interests at the expense of creative change. For this reason an explicit evaluative framework is needed for judging the quality of the union-management relationship. Organizational effectiveness provides the foundation for such a framework. Six effectiveness concepts are associated with the impact of the union-management relationship: absenteeism and turnover, labor productivity, adaptability/flexibility, job satisfaction, commitment, and user satisfaction. Using these concepts to assess the union-management relationship in government should prove valuable as a means for identifying factors conducive to constructive union-management relations. The evaluative criteria could also provide the focus for re-integrating employee, management, and citizen interests."
10.2307_975378	1980	"In this article an attempt is made to develop some general guidelines for the systematic evaluation of the desirability of the type and amount of redundancy to be maintained in administrative organizations. Three main redundant types are defined and examined, and criteria for evaluating their desirability suggested. The criteria are thereafter applied to the examination of (redundant) intelligence services, indicating what specific questions need to be answered and what would be some of the problems encountered in attempting to answer them."
10.2307_974866	1977	"This article is concerned with the ability of the U. S. policy organization to support national security objectives and how to improve that ability. Special attention is given to the development of this organization and to forms of policy making over the last 30 years. The author outlines five major ways in which national security policy making affects American security interests and evaluates their effectiveness. The article then proceeds with a survey of policy making since World War II, focusing on the National Security Council and its development. Organizational politics will always play a large role in national security decision making, the author concludes. Further, the five noted criteria have been unequally served. We must determine not only whether organizational elaboration is an effective response to national security problems, but also whether these national security policy-making organizations themselves fulfill the purposes for which they were created."
10.2307_3110472	1979	"This article departs from the ""public interest"" theories of regulation by proposing a third possibility-in some cases while regulation may be initiated in order to advance the interest of the public, the practical consequences may be compatible with the self-interest of the industry. To show this the effects of the regulation imposed on the cigarette industry are examined; in particular the analysis concentrates on the anti-smoking commercials aired under the provision of the Fairness Doctrine between the years 1968-1970, and the decision to prohibit advertising for cigarettes on the broadcasting media. The analysis demonstrates that the latter regulation may be considered as a victory to the industry in several interesting ways. It also reveals a paradoxical situation whereby regulation to ensure free economic competition (i.e., antitrust laws) generated or bred regulation that limited the scope of such competition."
10.2307_975297	1983	"This essay categorizes and analyzes the arguments for and against a code of ethics for the American Society for Public Administration. The arguments against a code are said to be from practicality, procedure, and administrative theory. The arguments for a code are said to be from objectivism, community, and courage. The negative argument from practicality is based on the founders' call for moderation in moral matters. The negative argument from procedure places great value on consensus, and builds consensus around the agreement to agree on nothing substantive. The negative argument from administrative theory honors the tradition of the value neutral administrator who has no discretion and therefore no moral responsibility. The affirmative argument from objectivism posits transcendent values and holds that actions are the predicates of being. The affirmative argument from community maintains that the community is the arbiter of what is ethical, and that ethical relativism represents both a loss of paradigm and a loss of a sense of community in public administration. The affirmative argument from courage says the language of moral choice makes felicitous that which in any case is necessary."
10.2307_975977	1982	"The influence of citizen participation and staff recommendations on regulatory decision making has been an issue of interest since the proliferation of regulatory legislation in the late 1960s and early 1970s. In a study of 1,816 public hearings held by one regulatory agency, the California Coastal Commission, findings reveal that participation changed voting outcomes independent of staff recommendations and that staff recommendations were followed selectively. The most interesting finding was that a staff recommendation for denial, and the presence of citizen opposition, when acting together, became a strong predictive variable, significantly increasing the probability that a permit will be denied. Neither variable by itself had such predictive power. The findings suggest that the relationship between staff recommendations, citizen participation, and voting outcomes is more complex than has been assumed, and that staff recommendations need to be ""decomposed"" if a true picture of their impact is to be seen. In sum, the findings question the conventional wisdom that citizen participation in public hearings is ineffective, or that part-time regulators ""rubber stamp"" the recommendations of their staffs."
10.2307_975621	1980	"On the margins of government are several kinds of bodies that carry out the tasks of policy formulation, service delivery and evaluation, even while they enjoy considerable autonomy from the conventional mechanisms of control. This article focuses on contractors who work for government agencies in the United States. It identifies both manifest and latent functions of contractors, deals with issues of government control over contractors, and examines several possibilities for reform. The material comes from a comparative project which shows that the kinds of institutions that appear on the margins of a government reflect national traits of political culture, government structure, and the economy."
10.2307_3110379	1979	"A special variety of policy-relevant information has proved particularly troublesome for decision makers interested in ""grounding"" their decisions: scientific and technical information. The objectives of this study, an analysis of data obtained from semi-structured interviews with officials of the National Science Foundation, were (1) to provide some insight into the role of scientific information in the making of science policy and (2) to point up some of the particular problems involved in attempts to infuse scientific information into public decision-making. Findings indicated that the use of scientific information in policy-making was limited; that decision-makers generally obtained scientific information from informal and usually interpersonal sources and that the informal system was greatly preferred over more formal (including computerized) information systems. These findings suggest that information system designers should attempt to exploit the advantages for informalism and, more generally, should design information systems that are in accord with user preferences."
10.2307_976037	1978	"This article argues that the field of administrative theory is losing sense of its specific objectives, by attempting to assimilate models and concepts extraneous to its proper domain. In substantiating this argument, the writer discusses instances of ""misplacement of concepts"" current in the field of administrative theory, as they appear in the writings of several authors."
10.2307_975705	1981	"American government in the twentieth century has been faced with a serious value conflict between the need for rational allocation of scarce resources through planning, and the need to be responsive to a diverse society. Two ideal types of planning correspond to these two values. Rational planning emphasizes the importance of the planner's expertise in achieving the ""best"" path to socially defined goals. Advocacy planning emphasizes the importance of responsiveness to group interests since all planning decisions are basically a matter of value choice. Citizen participation in planning often combines elements of these two models, embodying the value conflict in planning agency procedures. Health systems agencies are examined as a typical case of such planning. Their failure to build a constituency is viewed as a consequence of role conflict reduction strategies by representatives who did not know whether to play the planner or the advocate role, and how to play either."
10.2307_975059	1976	"? The purpose of this article is to examine the major issues surrounding the intrastate component of the general revenue sharing formula and to present empirical findings regarding these issues. Three issues, ""need,"" the bounds, and tiering are identified and questions surrounding each are discussed. Based on the authors' empirical work, potential ways of resolving these issues are suggested. It was found that including an explicit poverty factor in the intrastate component of the formula and removing the bounds would make the formula much more responsive to fiscal disparities than is presently the case."
10.2307_975684	1978	"The thesis is that management analysis of very complex problems may be facilitated if the effort to formulate a thoroughgoing definition of the problem is delayed or even omitted from the analysis. Attempts to define a very complex and dynamic problem may result in an over-simplified or erroneous definition which, in turn, leads to an irrelevant solution. It is proposed that, instead of being defined, complex problems should be treated as open-ended."
10.2307_976125	1982	"Recently California developed mandatory building standards designed to conserve energy. The standards, which foreshadowed similar emerging federal standards, were to be implemented by the state Energy Commission and enforced by local building departments. This study found that such hard-path, regulatory policies, which were opposed by designers, builders, and building officials, could not be properly enforced because of the Energy Commission's apparent inability to overcome concerted resistance from those affected. In the face of such demands, the state gradually substituted soft-path training and education for designers, builders and building officials on how to understand and comply with the standards, in place of hard-path enforcement. The result appears to be relatively low levels of compliance. The paper shows how the application of policy implementation theory could have helped state authorities predict such outcomes, and would perhaps have led to other, more effective strategies for implementing building standards. The paper discusses a range of alternative implementation strategies that would rest on indirect, hard-path policies, which could be expected to win sufficient public support to help government agencies charged with enforcement withstand opposition from those affected, and avoid conflicts between state and local jurisdictions."
10.2307_975175	1975	"This article examines the question of enhancing efficiency, effectiveness, and economy in terms of macro-organizational behavior. Efficiency, effectiveness, and economy are combined and operationalized in the concept of ""economizing,"" a social process of calculation and control carried out by members of the organization. A means of implementing ""economizing"" is proposed in the form of four market mechanisms which may be introduced into public organizations. They are flexibility, delegation of authority, cost assignment techniques, and task acquisition systems. Specific forms of organizational financial structure are presented as means of inducing these market mechanisms. The experience with Navy Industrial Funds is reviewed as a partial implementation of the market mechanism."
10.2307_974507	1977	"A set of literature in public administration has recently emerged, associated with the Public Choice perspective, which argues against metropolitan consolidation-and police consolidation specifically. This article reviews the major assertions which the ""anti-consolidationists"" make in specific reference to the consolidation of urban police departments: (1) that larger police departments are not more efficient or economical; and (2) that citizen satisfaction with urban police services varies inversely with the size of the municipality. On the first assertion the authors find that evidence is still inconclusive regarding the economy and efficiency of larger police departments. To evaluate the second assertion Campbell and Schuman's study of citizen attitudes in 15 American cities was reanalyzed. The results indicate that, contrary to the anti-consolidationist viewpoint, citizen satisfaction with police services is more a reflection of the differentiated socioeconomic characteristics of central cities and suburban cities than a function of city size. Evidence further suggests that ""if all things were equal,"" larger jurisdictions would produce more satisfying police services."
10.2307_975061	1976	"? School districts stand accused of overestimating required expenses and underestimating anticipated income. Some would say that districts might want to keep this money hidden from teachers who would be asking that it be spent on salaries. Evidence from 212 budgets of 24 San Francisco Bay Area suburban school districts shows that these school districts do underestimate income and to a lesser extent overestimate expenses. Whether this is done for ""legitimate"" reasons or as a collective bargaining ploy is left for the reader's decision. This article reviews some popularly held views about public budget-making behavior, and proposes that these views be systematically tested on a micro-level. The bulk of the article, as suggested above, describes one such test. Further research along similar dimensions is recommended."
10.2307_974509	1977	"An increasing number of federal employees are being named as Alleged Discriminatory Officials (ADOs) in discrimination complaints which upon investigation are not sustained. These unsustained allegations can have serious personal and career implications for the ADOs since their supervisors and peers usually become aware of the allegations but are seldom informed of the details of the investigations. During the investigative process, the ADO is considered as simply an ordinary witness. Thus, he or she does not have the right to (a) be notified when a complaint is filed naming him or her as an ADO nor be kept informed of the status of the investigation; (b) examine documents in the investigative file, including the allegations against him or her; (c) present a statement to the hearing examiner or attend the hearing during testimony of others; or (d) call witnesses before the investigator or the hearing examiner. The appropriate congressional committees should promptly conduct hearings to determine whether changes should be made in the Equal Employment Opportunity Act of 1972 and the Privacy Act of 1974 to protect the rights of the ADO. Meanwhile, regulations of the Civil Service Commission should be amended to impart a greater degree of fairness to the complaint process."
10.2307_975533	1982	"Local governments around the nation are showing considerable interest in projecting their revenues and expenditures 3-5 years into the future. While there are technical issues associated with these efforts, there are also administrative and political questions that arise when institutionalizing these forecasts. This paper discusses such administrative issues as where might the forecasting responsibilities be placed within the organization, when should the forecasts be produced and the roles to be played by individual agencies in this effort. As well, certain political ramifications of public forecasts and how they relate to the forecasting effort are discussed."
10.2307_975373	1980	"The popularization of civil service reform by the president, numerous governors, and many state and local legislative bodies in response to serious citizen concern over the costs of government has provided the stimulus for renewed attention to the topic of performance appraisal in the public sector. The effort to enlarge the role of merit in the ""merit systems"" of government at all levels has caused a widespread inclination to strengthen the role of performance appraisal as the means by which merit pay, promotion, special training, and other personnel policies could be awarded. How will public servants react to such a strengthening of personnel evaluation procedures? Will they welcome and cooperate with efforts of this kind, or will they fear and resist such changes? A review of relevant literature on employee attitudes toward performance appraisal in the private sector suggests that resistance is to be anticipated; unfortunately, little research has been done in the public sector on this important question. This article reports on the results of a survey among Washington State employees, results which indicate that there may be a far more supportive environment for merit evaluation of performance in the public sector than would be suggested by the conventional wisdom of personnel management literature. Furthermore, there is evidence to suggest that public employees will respond quite favorably to the emphasis placed upon ""employee participation"" in the performance appraisal processes established in the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978."
10.2307_975505	1978	"Citizen participation mandates proliferate, but there is little agreement among and between citizens and administrators as to their goals and objectives. While citizen participation takes on meaning only within a value context, most citizen participation programs fail to acknowledge this reality. Ignoring the centrality of value to the participation concept has resulted in confusion as to the meaning, expectations, and cause and effect relationships between participation programs and societal goals. Little is known about the ""effectiveness"" of participation. It is suggested that the use of evaluation research methodology, which forces the articulation of heretofore ""hidden values"" and assumptions, can produce an acceptable framework for both the conceptualization and measurement of citizen participation effectiveness."
10.2307_975915	1983	This is a review of the administrative evolution of our national government through four notable periods of American history. The focus is on system transformations of our administrative state with an emphasis on founders and their theories and goals. The essay closes with a critique of the Reagan program and some suggestions for the future based on the past.
10.2307_975709	1981	"Local governments could play a large role in U. S. energy conservation policy, while maintaining their own fiscal stability. Data from a survey of 72 percent of all municipalities in North Carolina with populations over 10,000 were used to explore the current and planned levels of program commitment in energy, the organization for energy management, and perceived needs for enhancing the local efforts. Set in the context of intergovernmental relations, suggestions are made for providing the necessary policy guidance to local governments to enhance their potential role in conservation policy."
10.2307_975834	1983	"Merit pay for the federal employees is a controversial personnel program that bases compensation of grades 13-15 supervisors and managers on their rated performance. Under the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, merit pay was implemented concurrently with a new, untested, objectives-based performance appraisal system. The motivational model of behavior on which merit pay is based is used here to analyze data from five federal agencies. The results indicate that, as perceived by affected employees, the new performance appraisal system does not effectively measure performance and therefore does not serve the purpose of the merit pay program to link pay to performance. Other implementation contingencies, such as the pay cap on managerial salaries, uncertainties associated with the presidential transition, and an eleventh-hour change in the merit pay formula, also appear to have contributed to the perceived ineffectiveness of merit pay. From a policy perspective, the results suggest that performance appraisal systems need to be improved to accomplish the motivational objectives of merit pay. Furthermore, there is no indication that the merit pay experiment at grades 13-15 has been sufficiently successful to proceed with plans to include employees in Grades 1-12."
10.2307_975846	1983	"Survey data related to the motivation and incentive systems in the Senior Executive Service are analyzed and the potential applicability of the findings to cutback management is examined. Among the findings are that the managers consider both nonmonetary and monetary rewards to be significant motivators for good performance. Further, although attitudes concerning personal self-esteem and individual commitment to their positions and co-workers remain high over two waves of data collection, there appears to be a lower level of organizational trust which can be viewed as a response to diminished opportunities for advancement and job security. Some suggestions for personnel policy in agencies involved in retrenchment activities are offered: First, managers should be treated as professionals who are viewed as solutions to rather than causes of the problems retrenchment is designed to address; second, managers should be allowed to work in an environment in which political pressures are minimal; and third, managers should be given financial awards (which are clearly limited during retrenchment) that are closely tied to performance."
10.2307_3110192	1980	Over a period of fifteen years-from 1953 to 1968-the U.S. government provided major technical assistance to the Iranian government in public administration. Two of the largest public administration assistance projects-aid to the Iranian ministries and aid to the Iranian police-are examined in detail. Both of these projects failed to accomplish their major objectives and these failures contributed to the Iranian revolution of 1978-79. Some explanations for these failures are given.
10.2307_976005	1982	"By focusing on the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA), this essay explores some factors that impede and facilitate standards deregulation by administrative agencies. Standards deregulation, which can be distinguished from target or enforcement deregulation, might be portrayed as a form of organizational reduction, decline, or capture. In OSHA's case, however, it is most appropriately seen as an attempt at error correction. The first major section of this essay considers OSHA's initial promulgation of health and safety rules and the forces generating recognition that these standards contained many errors. The next section describes and explains the relatively slow pace of error correction via standards deregulation within OSHA. In this regard, it considers the roles played by moralistic domain conflict, judicialized decision procedures and the agency's dominant professional ethos. A third section assesses the factors that finally expedited error rectification pointing in particular to the relevance of integrated oversight. Finally, the essay considers two basic approaches to coping with the need for standards deregulation by an administrative agency and discusses the implications of the particular option OSHA chose."
10.2307_974537	1975	"The author contends that current approaches to the study of legislative modernization and improvement provide a highly inhibiting framework for research and theory construction. There are two important aspects discussed in this article: (1) conventional assumptions of the relationship of professional staffs to legislative bodies must be reviewed, with an emphasis on the empirical soundness of current theories, e. g., the one-sided view of the policy role legislative aides do play; and (2) certain aspects of public administration, especially organization theory, suggest themselves as means of understanding the role of the staff and may offer some new insights into legislative structures and their environments."
10.2307_974279	1975	"In 1966 the U. S. Congress established a Commission on Political Activities of Government Personnel. Among other things, it was to determine the effect of laws restricting the voluntary political activities of federal employees. Using data generated by the Commission's ""Federal Civil Service Employees Study,"" the proclivity of federal civil servants toward more political activity was examined in detail. While some employees would be more active if current restrictions were removed, a majority of federal workers would not participate at any more than their current level. There was no homogeneous grouping of these employees who would be more active, but rather this group was dispersed throughout the entire civil service. However, a majority felt all federal employees should be allowed to participate in some activities which are currently prohibited. Serious consideration should therefore be given to repeal of restrictions which appear to be unnecessary."
10.2307_975722	1981	"This study finds that policy research sponsored by the Department of Defense on the all-volunteer armed force is, with some qualifications, relevant, timely, and nonduplicative. Unlike other researchers, the present authors conclude such policy research is at least potentially useful to the Department of Defense and its branches. Data and analysis involved bibliographies of studies on the all-volunteer force filed in a computer-based information retrieval system operated by the National Technical Information Service."
10.2307_974585	1976	"This report explores two fundamental concepts used to evaluate organizational activity: efficiency and effectiveness. These are defined in terms of the relationship between inputs and outputs for organizations and their relative processing costs. The concepts are then applied to police departments, and data from a large sample of cities are used to explore the impact of several factors which presumably maximize efficiency and effectiveness. Evidence is presented that organizational reforms (hiring black policemen) and innovations (employing computers and civilians) enhance both dimensions of organizational performance."
10.2307_975623	1980	"Based on a mail questionnaire sent to public employees in five states, this article examines the scope and correlates of employee perceptions of discrimination bsaed on age, sex and race. Almost one in five state employees perceive some form of job discrimination. Women, older workers and non-whites who feel sex, age and race discrimination share feelings of dissatisfaction with their jobs, that promotions are not handled fairly, and that supervisors do not take a personal interest in them as employees. In addition, women, older workers and non-white as separate groups have additional individual characteristics and aspects of their job environments which relate to their perceptions of discrimination. This research suggests a personnel problem of substantial magnitude and a potentially large negative impact on the quality of government. Possible remedies for such perceptions of discrimination are discussed as well as the kind of research needed to more fully understand the nature of the problems."
10.2307_975850	1983	"This article develops a planning model that aids local government agencies to develop energy conservation programs for their communities. This model is based on concepts developed in the field of marketing. While applied here to energy conservation, this model is general enough to be adaptable for use in other local government programs requiring marketing efforts-trying to direct specific services to special demographic groups. Data provided by the City of Saint Paul, a state energy agency, and a local utility are used to demonstrate how this model can be applied."
10.2307_975539	1982	"In this article, data are reported from a survey of the ASPA membership and leadership concerning their evaluation of the Public Administration Review. The results of the survey indicate that the ASPA membership generally views PAR positively and the membership perceptions of PAR have improved steadily between 1975 and 1981. The most popular features of PAR are the articles, symposia, From the Professional Stream, and the Public Management Forum."
10.2307_976212	1979	"Twelve years of budgetary experience with the Appalachian Regional Development Program are used to inquire whether less detailed congressional constraints on the use of appropriated funds have resulted in a change in state spending priorities. After examining the relative allocation of funds for the thirteen states as a group and individually, the conclusion is reached that though priorities have clearly changed, other factors (in addition to less detailed budgetary constraints) have also been in operation. These other factors include changes in underlying priorities, changes in other federal legislation, and attainment of some goals of the program."
10.2307_975919	1983	The Oakland Raiders case potentially gives professional sports franchise owners the right to relocate their teams at will once their stadium or arena lease expires. The National Football League and representatives of local governments are seeking legislation to restrict franchise relocations. This article reviews the relationship between cities and professional sports franchises since 1950 and analyzes the legislative options available to protect local government interests. The article concludes such options do not constitute wise public policy and that local managers must develop strategies of their own to tie franchises more permanently to their host communities.
10.2307_975460	1981	"For many American cities, fiscal crisis has now become fiscal routine. It is now five years since the advent of the acute stage of the New York City fiscal crisis, and in the intervening years numerous other cities have faced their own ""financial emergencies."" With this time perspective in mind, it is now appropriate to re-examine some propositions suggested earlier in this period, and to examine the conduct of urban management in a time in which fiscal stringency has become more the norm than the exception. This paper will re-examine the performance of urban administration in portions of the New York City government, and will report on some of the variations in management which have occurred in the post-crisis period. It will also investigate the behavior of those with supervisory responsibility over urban managers, to examine how the external constraints on urban management have evolved as fiscal stringency has become routinzed. (As just one indicator of this change from crisis to routine, the New York City Emergency Financial Control Board, the state monitoring agency with responsibility for overseeing New York City expenditure practices, has now dropped the word emergency from its title.)"
10.2307_975379	1980	"This research investigates municipal experience with zero-base budgeting (ZBB) in 35 cities. The chief executive was the primary force behind the adoption of ZBB, but the city councils seemed more involved in the process than have the legislative bodies in non-municipal jurisdictions which have used ZBB. The biggest problem in the ZBB process was the time and paperwork demands. But despite this problem and others, the respondents believed that ZBB was able to reduce some agency budgets and control the rate of increase in others. Also, it encouraged greater line management participation in budget preparations and was useful in educating top city officials about the operations of municipal departments. The respondents wanted to continue ZBB in their cities, but many desired major modifications in the process."
10.2307_975343	1977	"This article describes recent governmental efforts to reduce paperwork and red tape. The authors summarize the content and recommendations of some of the major studies by the Commission on Federal Paperwork, and present a checklist to help decision makers identify paperwork burdens. A number of significant paperwork reduction efforts that have been undertaken at the state and local levels are briefly examined."
10.2307_976091	1982	"The recent, dramatic emergence of the fiscal limitations movement in the United States has provoked a diverse array of intriguing research questions. This review essay explicates some of the recent theoretical and empirical research relevant to this movement, with particular emphasis on California's Proposition 13. An extensive body of research has been produced, although significant knowledge gaps remain. This essay first outlines a classification scheme for the types of fiscal containment instruments that are being implemented. Second, the research literature on the basic causes of the movement is examined. This is followed by an assessment of the immediate and predicted effects of fiscal limitations measures. Finally, groups who seem to be major beneficiaries and losers from these measures are identified."
10.2307_976011	1982	"Funds for human service programs and services are declining, and selection criteria for funds are becoming more objective. These conditions are creating an imbalance in the system which will result in a significant change in human service funding and delivery. The climate is ripe for increased competition among those who obtain funds for human services. This article attempts to define how that competition will ultimately generate a spirit of cooperation among the survivors. To reach that point, however, grantsmen/providers, to be competitive, will need to sharpen their technical writing skills and their political skills, that is, they need to become more shrewd, prudent, and diplomatic. This article suggests some methods for improving technical grant-writing skills and developing political skills among grant writers."
10.2307_975938	1979	"This study examines the utilization and perceived value of private and university consultants in the states of Alabama, Kentucky, and Wisconsin. Analysis of questionnaire data from 304 state and local officials indicates that nearly four-fifths of the government organizations surveyed have hired consultants in the last five years and that these officials generally rate the performance of consultants positively."
10.2307_975179	1975	"It is fashionable to describe the field of public affairs/public administration as eclectic, interdisciplinary, applied, and career-oriented. These terms, while reasonably accurate descriptors of the prevailing self-image of the profession, are shown in a recent national survey to represent more the ideal than the real. This article presents an in-depth analysis of the 1974 graduate program survey of member institutions of the National Association of Schools of Public Affairs and Administration (NASPAA). The results, though contradictory to many current assumptions about education in the profession, provide a firm empirical base for continued dialogue on the state of professional education in public affairs/public administration."
10.2307_975707	1981	"There are two principal external remedies to the problem of underrepresentation in regulatory agency proceedings: grass-roots advocacy (direct participation by citizens' groups) and proxy advocacy (representation by government officials not employed by the regulatory agency). Differences among states in patterns of advocacy before public utility commissions provide an unusual opportunity for assessing these alternative approaches. Interviews with grassroots advocates and proxy advocates in 12 states reveal differences in priorities, constituency linkages, and expertise. Clearly, grassroots advocacy and proxy advocacy are not interchangeable solutions to the under-representation problem. Three states-Wisconsin, Colorado, and Michigan-have developed hybrid models that attempt to improve grassroots advocacy, proxy advocacy, or both. Based on the criteria of diversity, accountability, and quality, the Michigan model is superior to its alternatives."
10.2307_976118	1982	"The participation of women in local government, especially within an international framework, has not been widely studied. This paper examines the change in status of women in local government during the past few decades. Data show that women have made progress in increasing their political participation. At the same time, many of the formidable barriers to women playing a more prominent role in public decision making and administration still exist. General societal and specific barriers are discussed. Recommendations for actions that could lead to increasing women's participation in local government are directed toward national and local governments, political parties, and women themselves."
10.2307_975793	1981	"The amount and type of information that is available to public organizations has been increasing at an alarming rate. In attempting to manage information necessary for making program policy and administrative decisions, the administrator occupies a central role in the information management process. Using the results of interviews with state agency administrators, the authors discuss methods that have been adopted for controlling the flow of information from internal and external sources. The findings indicate that administrators, while perceiving the need to be aware of external developments, have been less successful in exploring and utilizing alternative information-seeking strategies. Possible options for remedying these deficiencies are presented for consideration."
10.2307_975739	1981	"Policy analysis, in various forms, has been in use for many years; however, there is a need for a systematic, empirical assessment of the use of analysis. The purpose of this study is to build upon previous work and to advance a contingency-demand model of policy analysis use at the state level. An examination of data from a survey of state budget offices shows that the basic model can be used to help understand some complexities and is appropriate for expanding our knowledge about what internal and external factors influence the use of policy analysis in the different branches of state government. The results also show that the different branches of government have different contingencies and demands to which they must respond. Based upon the study findings, certain suggestions and alternatives for the use of policy analysis are presented."
10.2307_3110077	1981	"The influence of legal training and experience upon the behavior of policy decision makers has been a source of both academic and popular concern. This paper is a preliminary investigation of factors that might contribute to an undue influence of legal training on governmental policy making. The specific focus of this paper is higher-level federal executives in the career service. The distribution and number of high level executives with legal backgrounds are determined, and comparisons between legally-trained executives and executives from other backgrounds are made with respect to career patterns and attitudinal orientations. Executives with legal backgrounds are found to vary marginally on some specific characteristics, but there do not appear to be any systematic differences between groups which would lead to a variation in policy-making behavior. These findings do not support the assertion that lawyers dominate executive institutions of government. Lawyers do not appear to dominate the federal bureaucracy in numbers, nor do the data suggest that they are particularly different from other executives. Legal training, therefore, does not appear to have a direct, unmediated impact on the formation of public policy, at least to the extent that administrative agencies are involved in such policy making."
10.2307_975678	1978	"If our federal system, which is a parceling out of roles and responsibilities, is to function better, we need institutional means to illuminate and reorder the networks of relationships in which we find ourselves. We need to know who does what and why in federal/non-federal relationships. We need a system which can rationally accommodate both the shifting of maximum responsibility to non-federal parties and the significant amount of federal intervention that became necessary in the 1960's. We need to provide program managers with realistic and effective project and activity implementing alternatives or means to realize national objectives. These interrelated needs can be met by elaborating a structure or framework which recognizes alternative federal/non-federal relationships. The use of this framework, which is required by PL 95-224, ""The Federal Grant and Cooperative Agreement Act of 1977"" will facilitate informed discussion of pressing issues of federalism."
10.2307_3110258	1980	"This paper argues that budget authority for Section 8, the nation's largest housing construction subsidy program, is not sufficient to meet the full term of commitments. Using even optimistic assumptions, it is estimated that budget authority may need to be increased substantially. Three means of addressing the problem are analyzed. The paper concludes with a discussion of ways to prevent the problem from arising in the future."
10.2307_975428	1983	"The paper presents a succinct review of the points of contention between the functionalist school of corruption of the 1960s and the post-functionalist approach that emerged in the 1970s. The ""new"" literature draws attention to the systemic revitalization of corruption in the developed countries, as well as describing its dysfunctional aspects. While the functionalists argued that corruption is doomed to self-destruction with the national maturation process, post-functionalists argue that corruption feeds on a variety of causes, and that it is self-perpetuating. This ultimate dysfunctionality is enhanced by the ""spillover effect."" Three types of spillover effect are examined: leader-follower spillover, the dimensions of corruption spillover, and institutional spillover. In assuming that corruption is individual, functional and above all, doomed to self-destruction, the functionalists displayed a fatal ennui. Post-functionalists demonstrate anxiety about the problem and subsequently, suggest a multi-dimensional strategy to cope with the threat. The potential importation of a ""community justice"" strategy is inter-alia discussed."
10.2307_975704	1981	"Financial audits in federal grant programs are an important bureaucratic control technique but recently have provoked controversy. Three recent disputes in the AFDC program illustrate the delay in program review, federal efforts to shift review costs to states and lower costs through sampling of grantee operations, difficulties in decentralizing federal decision making and the need to define audit appeal procedures. This paper concludes with policy suggestions."
10.2307_975833	1983	"In their classic work on matrix organizations, Davis and Lawrence expressed skepticism about the utility of matrix structures for improving the efficiency and effectiveness of government programs. This article argues that the use of matrix designs, in fact, may be a key to effective performance for an important class of public sector organizations, namely the headquarters units of federal or state programs. These units tend to confront environmental, task and cross-functional integrative conditions that would call for matrixing in any organization-private, non-profit, or public. In addition, matrix designs provide a means of overcoming two conditions particular to government-public sector requirements for organizational formalization and civil service rigidities. These points are illustrated by a brief case, a federal headquarters unit responsible for a national employment and training program. The article notes that many headquarters units appear to grope toward matrixing strategies, but without being aware of the requirements and effects of such strategies. The requirements and effects that emerge as especially important for such units are examined, and five steps are identified by which headquarters units can sustain a matrix in the inhospitable setting of a government bureaucracy. Finally, the relevance of matrixing strategies in an era of government retrenchment and New Federalism is considered."
10.2307_975796	1981	"The present discussion reports on some of the first statewide data gathering and analysis to assess the consequences of the 1975 reorganization of the Florida Department of Health and Rehabilitative Services. Two major concepts guiding the reorganization were: (1) integration of services in order to cover more adequately the needs of clients, including ""multiproblem"" clients, and (2) decentralization of administrative authority of all programs under a single, district-wide management structure. Despite widespread interest in the Florida system, and two previous studies, no systematic, detailed study of the impact of reorganization at the service delivery level has been conducted until now. The results of this study indicate that departmental employees perceive substantial decentralization of authority and progress toward integration of services since the 1975 reorganization. Perceived improvement in client services is also indicated. Major factors cited as influential in the change are the move toward collocation of services, the establishment of administratively interlinked service networks, and to a lesser extent, the development of generalist managers."
10.2307_976089	1982	"Many forecasts about information technology in the coming decade abound with suggestions of revolutionary change, based largely on the expectation that advances in computing and communications hardware and software will profoundly affect the organization and use of these technologies. This paper raises objections to these predictions, based on results from more than a decade of research into local government use of computing technology, and presents a less exciting but more realistic forecast about what will happen with the use of information technology in local governments in the 1980s."
10.2307_974505	1977	"The objective of this research was to investigate two questions: how influential are city managers in the revenue sharing process, and are managers' values and attitudes obstacles to citizen participation in local decisions about spending shared revenues. Findings suggest that manager preferences for spending are very significant predictors of actual allocations. Additionally, managers avoided holding public hearings. This avoidance seemed to be influenced by their notions of community consensus and solidarity. In those few cities where hearings were held, however, it seemed that city managers were able to still exercise considerable discretion in allocating revenue sharing funds."
10.2307_974541	1975	"The article argues that Management by Objectives (MBO) and Planning-Programming-Budgeting (PPB) are not mutually exclusive or contradictory approaches to complex management situations in the public sector, but are in fact complimentary types of management systems. Conceptual models of the key features of both systems are developed, with emphasis on the caveat that system characteristics for both MBO and PPB vary from setting to setting. The key features are then compared and contrasted for purposes of identifying possible ways of improving upon present and future management systems efforts."
10.2307_975921	1983	"The City of South Barwon in Geelong, Australia has operated a recreation voucher scheme for six years. This case study was developed from personal interviews with South Barwon officials, citizens of the city, and city documents. The case describes the operating procedures adopted to implement the recreation vouchers; the expectations of city officials when the voucher scheme was introduced; the scheme's limitations; and the lessons which have emerged. The potential problems and opportunities associated with introducing a similar scheme into North American jurisdictions are discussed."
10.2307_3110261	1980	"Organizational decision making, though generally regarded as an active process, has a passive dimension as well. Passive decision making is not only an important, and under-studied, phenomenon but may be functional in dealing with challenges to organizational domain. Furthermore, because the different levels within an organization have different responsibilities, passive decision making is probably most often encountered at the institutional level. This theoretical case study of the National Science Foundation and the issue of the geographic distribution of research awards both illustrates some of the functions of non-choice activity and integrates some of the literature on organizational decision making in new ways."
10.2307_975703	1981	"In this article, the effects of a number of social and career variables on the environmental attitudes of employees of state air pollution control agencies are examined to see whether these attitudes are formed primarily as a result of internal agency processes or as a result of individual experiences occurring outside of the agency context. The results should help to reveal how useful training and structuring of employee experiences are relative to initial attention on the search for and recruitment of personnel already possessing effective attitudinal orientations. The results obtained indicate that both internal agency processes and processes occurring outside the agency context contribute to attitude formation. Moreover, some evidence suggests that among internal agency processes, those purposefully created by organization leaders have more impact on attitudes than random social processes. In efforts to influence employee attitude patterns, administrators are well advised to neglect neither recruitment nor structuring of employee experiences."
10.2307_974865	1977	"This article traces both the growth of research and development for national defense and the evolution of its present management environment in relation to the fundamental changes brought about by such growth. The author details the unique nature and background of the defense acquisition process, one in which the most important participant, the government, has constant control over the R & D process of a product. However, such control is a relatively new procedure, and three general periods in its development are delineated. Prior to World War II there was little R & D coordination between the Army and Navy Departments, and a heavy reliance on commercial ""ready made"" items for military use, as well as on foreign weaponry. In the second period - from WW II to the early 1960s - five fundamental changes are noted in the R & D management environment, including the centralized control of R & D and the separation of it from procurement. During the third period, beginning with the McNamara Secretaryship, three additional modifications come about. But, it is concluded, it is still too early to determine the effectiveness of these new procedures."
10.2307_3110202	1980	"Those knowledge and skill needs important to tomorrow's public managers are identified in this study. Results from three annual surveys conducted by mail questionnaire with public administrators who had received ""service aware"" recognition from ICMA for completing 10 or more years of public service provide the data base for analysis. ""Personnel administration, including labor relations"" and understanding the ""causes of major urban problems"" ranked as the top knowledge areas. Over time, a substantial increase in the relative importance of understanding ""urban economic development"" was identified. ""Situation analysis"" and ""assessing community needs"" ranked as the top skill areas. Overall, the survey results point out the importance of the art of public administration. The more technical knowledge and skill areas tended to rank lower in importance."
10.2307_975797	1981	"The administrative demands and political pressures that the new grant programs of the 1970s brought the cities have led them to rely more heavily on non-city agencies. Particularly in the Community Development Block Grant Program, formal, regular ties have replaced the squabbling that in earlier programs characterized the relationships among groups in the cities. These new ties have not only brought new administrative responsibilities to the cities but, as this examination of grant administration in Richmond shows, have led also to a new status for these non-city agencies: a new partnership with the federal, state, and local governments in the pursuit of national policy goals and, thus, the creation of a fourth face of federalism."
10.2307_974586	1976	"Earlier studies of the images of government service held by students assume that government service is potentially more attractive to lower class and minority group youths than for the middle and upper middle class. This study involves a sample of 645 San Antonio area high school juniors and seniors, proportionately representative of the Mexican-American, black, and ""Anglo"" ethnic populations of this metropolitan area of a million persons. The research indicates that ethnicity continues to be an important factor in attitudes toward public service, but there appears to be less of a rational assessment of public service across the three subcultures than earlier assumptions suggest. Preference for employment at the three levels of bureaucracy appears to have little relationship to the students' perceptions of the most effective and desirable sources of policy implementation."
10.2307_975177	1975	"This article is a critical review of the 1973 National Academy of Public Administration report, Meeting the Needs of Tomorrow's Public Service: Guidelines for Professional Education in Public Administration (January 1973). Questions are raised about the validity of data presented in the NAPA study to describe the present status of public affairs education. Concern is also expressed about the projections made about the future. The Delphi exercise is specifically challenged as raising special problems for studies made by blue ribbon panels. Some projections are also offered about the kinds of study that now needs to be made and what the author feels are some of the more fundamental elements that should be included in training for tomorrow's public executives."
10.2307_975725	1981	"This study examines the relationships between ideology and service delivery performance in an established community mental health center which is beginning major structural changes. Ideological pluralism among several separate and internally-cohesive units within one organization led to diversity in staff productivity. The implications of ideological pluralism for planned organizational change, policy implementation and administration are explored."
10.2307_974506	1977	"Given the serious problems facing urban/suburban local governments, the search for a deus ex machina solution has centered upon the extensive use of computers and electronic data processing (EDP). For a variety of information-processing tasks, the contributions of EDP have been substantial. However, there has developed among many local government actors a ""litany"" to EDP. This consists of certain canons about the beneficial impacts of computers on local government operations. This article on the basis of case study analysis in 12 cities and counties, identifies major components of the litany to EDP. These include the beliefs that EDP is staff-reducing and cost-reducing, that EDP provides better information for decision makers, that EDP increases the superordinate's ability to monitor subordinates, and so on. The evidence suggests that the litany is often misleading and occasionally incorrect. The article presents generalized findings meant to temper the uncritical acceptance of the litany to EDP."
10.2307_3110467	1979	"The decline of recent monies for science is only a surface symptom of a more general loss of confidence, if not a crisis of belief, in the institution of science. The central argument of this paper is that modern science is founded upon an underlying social psychology and that this social psychology is in dire need of conscious examination. At this point in our history, the management of science may be a far more important issue than the philosophy of science. Any philosophy or management of science which is psychologically uninformed may be doomed to irrelevancy, and even worse, to failure. This paper argues for a new philosophy and management of science which are founded upon an explicit social psychology of science. Stronger still, it argues for a holistic theory of science management."
10.2307_975947	1979	"The Phoenix Management Intern Program was begun in 1950 to provide professional training in local government for young public administration graduates. During the past 28 years, more than 80 men and women, representing a cross-section of American universities, have participated in the program. Phoenix Intern Alumni have gone on to successful careers in public service and now hold responsible positions at all levels of government as well as with public interest and professional associations. The success of the Management Intern Program may be attributed in large part to a strong program commitment by city management staff and elected officials alike."
10.2307_976214	1979	"California's Proposition 13 received widespread attention as the first evidence of a national tax revolt. Observers expected voters in other states to follow California's example and adopt limitations on government taxing and spending. Voters in 13 states considered measures to limit taxes and government spending on November 7, 1978. The ""tax revolt"" measures were of two types: tax reduction-service reduction measures which led to immediate reductions in government services, and tax-spending restraint measures which limited increases in government spending. The latter measures have much less severe consequences for government service provision than do the former. The conclusion drawn from the 1978 voting results is a tax revolt of the service reduction variety did not occur. Rather, voters approved measures which constrained property tax payments and government spending increases."
10.2307_975338	1977	"Training, especially that undertaken at the managerial level, is often thought to be a rewarding investment in the future, but we have so far little firm evidence of its payoff. An examination of several studies of two popular training programs, Kepner-Tregoe and the Managerial Grid, highlights the methodological difficulties in making an evaluation of such training and outlines paths for research that should improve the quality of the training enterprise."
10.2307_976009	1982	"At present, government activities in environmental protection are experiencing demands for both improved management and a relaxation of burdensome regulatory procedures. Responding to these demands becomes difficult for agencies such as the EPA, which was originally designed in a procedural/legalistic mode to avoid capture. In order to adjust regulatory programs to a more adaptive/incentive approach, the EPA will probably have to place greater reliance on planning over traditional regulation. This planning process, in turn, should be derived from the models popular in community and corporate planning (e. g., systems and adaptive learning) rather than the traditional models which continue to hamper federal agency planning (e. g., rational and incremental)."
10.2307_974510	1977	"Introducing a management technique to ""solve"" a problem of government does not dispose of problems, but simply substitutes the implementation of the solution for the problem as originally defined. In the past decade, there has been a high level of concern about managing federal government programs. OMB's attempt to introduce management by objectives throughout the federal government in 1973 has been the chief response. OMB has learned by trying to do MBO the limitations of applying management techniques that do not take into account the political priorities that dominate government and its distinctive institutional character. The consequent loss of OMB interest in this management innovation cannot be cited as proof of the abandonment of MBO. Evidence is adduced to show that, like PPBS, it has evaporated; certain concepts and staff activities associated with the initial innovation have persisted following the implementation of a no longer fashionable innovation. A cycle of problem definition, implementation, and evaporation now leaves the problem of management, rather than the implementation of a solution, as the dominant concern in January 1977."
10.2307_975532	1982	"Affirmative action is one of the federal government's major tools to overcome job discrimination. One gap in existing inquiries is a data-based determination of whether affirmative action compliance is more successful in particular employment sectors. This study compares the impact of affirmative action enforcement in the private and federal sectors. It examines the respective effects of Maritime Administration and Civil Service Commission compliance procedures on female/male employment patterns in private and Naval blue collar shipyard jobs. The findings indicate Maritime enforcement was more successful than Civil Service oversight. The final section discusses some plausible explanations for this outcome. It suggests that achieving equal employment opportunity, especially for women, will continue to be more difficult in the federal than the private sector."
10.2307_975849	1983	"The recent presidential transition is examined in some detail in two federal agencies, the Environmental Protection Agency and the Mine Safety and Health Administration, using interview, questionnaire, and archival data collected between 1980 and 1983. The transition process is discussed in terms of the conflicting demands of organizational theory and democratic theory. Organizational theory emphasizes the difficulty with which organizations pursue change, their need for relative stability, and their ongoing attempts to adapt to their environments. Democratic theory emphasizes the importance of agency change and responsiveness given the changing desires of the electorate. These two tendencies interacted in the two agencies in different ways and to differing extents during the recent transition. Specifically, the transition produced increased centralization, less communication, and greater distrust between career and political employees. These effects are more pronounced and long-lasting in EPA than in MSHA because EPA's transition is more extreme. Such responses can impair the organization's ability to change, as well as its ability to conduct its more routine business, compromising both democratic and organizational goals."
10.2307_976012	1982	"This paper examines how information routinely collected by urban police departments may be used to monitor the performance of the patrol response function. Data from one large city are used to examine the problem of delay in responding to citizen requests for police service. Alternative solutions to this problem are discussed, focusing on the management of the patrol force through increased screening of incoming calls for service and more aggressive monitoring of patrol units by communications personnel."
10.2307_975425	1983	"This paper explores the prediction of King and Bass (1974) that black managers and supervisors may be more reluctant than whites to accept management programs such as management by objectives. Data were collected from 77 black and 61 white managers and professionals of the City of Detroit transportation system (D-DOT), after they had been involved with MBO for almost one year. Analyses of t-test results indicate that blacks assessed MBO as more helpful in their individual jobs and more positive for the organization than their white counterparts. Explanations derived from the racial demographics of the organization, the MBO installation, and characteristics of MBO as a management process in public agencies are given."
10.2307_975679	1978	"The office of lieutenant governor is rapidly changing. This article, in addition to reviewing some of these changes, examines the office from the standpoint of its role in state political and administrative career patterns from 1950 to 1975. The recruitment pattern to the office is explored, as well as the advancement of former lieutenant governors to higher office. Using models of the office developed by the National Conference of Lieutenant Governors, the authors examine two further questions. What kinds of states are most likely to adopt particular structures of the office and what impact does the variance in structure have on the kinds of people who serve in the office. The authors discover a distinct pattern of advancement to and from the office. This pattern has emphasized state legislative and administrative experience and has become more pronounced across time. It also varies widely according to different structures of the office."
10.2307_975540	1982	"In this paper we use willingness to pay per capita costs as a measure of citizen preferences. Two random samples of Mecklenburg County North Carolina registered voters were selected. One sample was asked whether they would pay the per capita cost for various kinds of urban services. The other was asked whether they thought these services were appropriate. As expected, fewer people were willing to pay directly for urban services. It was surprising to find that the relative strength or rank order of support for various urban activities was altered drastically by the item wording of the experimental instrument. Indeed, there is no statistically significant relationship between the ordering of the kinds of services in the two samples. The relative support and rank ordering of the items varied little across sex, race, age, and political party groups. Each of these control groups altered their support in the same way for the items in the experimental situation."
10.2307_974864	1977	"The article describes the procedures and conceptual underpinnings of the three basic budgeting processes used in the Department of Defense since its unification in 1947 and evaluates their strengths and weaknesses. The first period was that of the Truman-Eisenhower years, and the system of fixed allocations to each service used pleased no one, its only advantage being the early imposition of a spending ceiling. The second, the McNamara Period, is best characterized by the complete control exercised by the Secretary of Defense and by the introduction of the planning programming and budgeting system (PPBS). The third system is that in use since 1968; its most important aspects are the decentralization of power and modified retention of PPBS. Despite the improvements in the system, there are still serious shortcomings in the budgeting process. The author concludes that while much progress has been made in the budgetary process, there is still considerable room for improvement. Two primary constraints, however, will remain: its inherent political nature, and the near irrelevancy of planning."
10.2307_975682	1978	"This paper is concerned with omnibus legislation designed to change time-honored processes of internal government operations. Examples cited are drawn from the federal government: the 1972 Equal Employment Opportunity amendment to the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and the Privacy Act of 1974. Specifically, the paper is concerned with four generic characteristics of such legislation which work to thwart effective implementation. The author describes the functional management approach to Privacy Act implementation developed in the Public Health Service and proposes that approach, together with an innovative role for the designated oversight official, as a model for government agencies at all levels-federal, state, and local-to use in overcoming the obstacles to implementation inherent in all omnibus statutes."
10.2307_975676	1978	"A counterpoint between the political thought of Woodrow Wilson and Max Weber shows that Wilson's approach to administrative organization was an indirect reply to Weberian pessimism about the future of individual freedom in a bureaucratic age. Both critics and defenders of Wilson's early, seminal essay on administration have missed this fundamental point. Nor have they paid sufficient attention to the historical context in which that essay was written. Nor have they tried to understand the evolution of Wilson's thought on the relationship between politics and bureaucracy as he emerged into public life as university president, state governor, president, and war leader. Even a cursory look at some of these developments underscores Wilson's ongoing search for a distinctively ""American type"" of state with ""the bureaucratic fever"" shaken out of its veins."
10.2307_3110200	1980	"The article discusses the efforts of the State of New Jersey in strengthening and improving productivity. Past achievements are highlighted in such areas as state aid administration, capital financing, purchasing, and third-party contracting. The author suggests that past achievements lay a necessary foundation to facilitate and legitimate new productivity endeavors. New Jersey's productivity program includes the establishment of a productivity coordinator in each department, a quarterly report to the governor, and a most unique feature-the establishment of a Productivity Investment Fund. In the first year, the fund provided $40,000 in seed money to state agencies to implement cost-saving ideas. The article includes a listing and description of the 16 projects funded in the initial year with an estimated savings of $2.5 million. A second year has also been funded with an additional appropriation from the legislature plus the authority to use a portion of the savings. Productivity efforts from the Budget Office's Management Improvement Unit are also described, including several program and management studies which were completed."
10.2307_975622	1980	"Using government-sponsored enterprises as an example, this article calls attention to the blurred boundaries of public administration and emphasizes the desirability of establishing clear lines of accountability in a constitutional democracy. Government-sponsored enterprises, or their employees, are frequently statutorily designated as private, even when the entities are dependent on government financing. Ambiguities in their status often flow from policy makers' focus on federal ceilings on expenditures and personnel. The alternative of employing government-sponsored enterprises and other extra-governmental institutions should not be excluded when their superiority to other institutions can be demonstrated, but the decision should not be forced by inflexible regulations."
10.2307_974329	1977	"One of the more pressing problems of our times is the state of the bureaucracy. Not only have governmental institutions-federal, state, and local-fallen to new lows in public esteem, but there is evidence that the organizational performance that has gotten them this reputation is worsening rather than improving as new tasks are undertaken and level added to level in the hierarchy. Now we have a new President who has vowed to do something about the ""horrible bureaucracy"" over which he is presiding. This article warns him and his associates that reform isn't as easy as it sounds, and that reorganization, while necessary and useful, is only a part of the answer. It suggests a seven-point approach, the two most important of which are the exploring of new patterns of administration to replace ultimately the bureaucratic form; and the involving of members of the system-the bureaucrats themselves-in its modification."
10.2307_975413	1978	"Local government ""capacity building"" has been designated as a high priority activity for all federal regional councils. This article reports an exploratory study of local officials' attitudes toward this federal effort. A total of 258 local officials in eight southeastern states comprised the sample. The respondents were less than enthusiastic about having their ""capacities"" built."
10.2307_3110310	1980	"In a number of instances, governments have chosen to reduce their work forces through layoffs. Doing so has resulted in immediate apparent savings, but has also resulted in costly side effects which have not been fully counted and thus are not fully heeded in decision making. These include the costs of insecurity-induced quitting of valuable employees, lower productivity which accompanies layoff anxiety, unemployment compensation charge-backs, lost state tax revenues, the cost of operating the system for recalling laid-off employees, and many more. Planned attrition programs, though by no means a panacea, represent one way of eliminating many of the costs of these side effects, while maintaining most of the savings of layoffs. This study investigates the relative cost effectiveness of the layoff and attrition strategies, and presents illustrative data which suggest that managers should be cautious in using layoffs as a standard operating procedure for work force adjustments, while recognizing that layoffs may be the only feasible alternative in extraordinary circumstances."
10.2307_976213	1979	"How do the professional backgrounds of regulators affect the types of regulations they impose? This article addresses the question through a study of one of the most important federal regulatory agencies created during the ""consumer movement"" of the 1960's-the National Highway and Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA). Personal observation by the author of this agency's operation in 1976, ten years after its inception, led him to conclude that its professional engineers play a dominant role in definition of goals and in formulation of policy and operational methods. The article concludes with a case study of NHTSA's recent efforts to mandate air bags for all cars-a regulation consistent with the engineering bias of the organization."
10.2307_975940	1979	"City managers often face the need to hire consultants. There are many ways to proceed on this, two of which are detailed in this article. The experience of the city with using a consultant to assist with implementing a ZBB system focuses on the importance of flexibility in dealing with a consultant and emphasizes the role of monitoring as a management tool."
10.2307_975427	1983	"This article examines the extent to which differences exist in the relative degree of discretion permitted by the statutory mandates under which health risk assessments are conducted as a basis for regulatory action. Attention is focused on the Environmental Protection Agency and the Food and Drug Administration, because they are the lead federal regulatory agencies on most environmental health matters. The statutes are found to define risk, consider effects, identify target populations, and use benefit-cost analysis in a flexible way. But the burden of proof of risk typically is assigned in a more direct and stringent fashion. Overall, however, agencies are found to have substantial discretion in the manner in which risk assessments are incorporated into the policy process. A number of examples of efforts to reduce this flexibility are outlined and their implications for the future of the analysis of risks are delineated."
10.2307_976109	1980	"Data from 634 managers in nine executive departments of the U. S. government were used to explore managerial expectations regarding factors that contribute to their career advancement. Results of factor analysis of the six criteria assessed suggested three dimensions: performance, seniority, and technical skills. Managers expected the four performance criteria to be significantly more important for their promotion than either technical skills or seniority. Technical skills were also assessed as significantly more important than seniority. Multiple regression analyses of the three promotion criteria were performed with personal, role-related, and organizational variables as predictors. Results showed that lower status managers expected seniority and technical skills to be more highly rewarded than other managers, while higher status and more mobile managers expected performance to be more important than other managers. Also, older managers and those supervising lower-skilled workers saw seniority as more important than other managers. Interaction effects were found in additional analyses controlling for GS rating. Results showed that belief in merit principles was highest among highest status managers. The implications of the findings for current concern with reform of the civil service are discussed."
10.2307_3110204	1980	"Though many national and international agencies claim commitment to participative approaches to helping the rural poor, little progress has been made in translating ambitious plans into effective action. The record of earlier community development and cooperatives efforts is largely a history of failure, resulting more often in strengthening the position of traditional elites than in integrating poorer elements into the national development process. Many current calls for involvement of the rural poor are little more than wishful thinking, inadequately informed by past experience as to the investments in institutional innovation required to give reality to an important idea. The prevailing blueprint approach to development programming with its emphasis on detailed pre-planning and time bounded projects is itself cited as an important impediment. Examination of a number of Asian programs suggests that the more successful grew out of village experience. Consequently they were able to achieve an unusual degree of fit between beneficiary needs, program outputs, and the competence of the assisting organization. The key was not preplanning, but an organization with a capacity for embracing error, learning with the people, and building new knowledge and institutional capacity through action. A model of the learning process approach to building program strategies and appropriate organizational competence suggests a new program should progress through three developmental stages in which the focal concern is successively on learning to be effective, learning to be efficient, and learning to expand. Implications for the role of the social scientist and for action by funding agencies are discussed."
10.2307_976290	1978	"The climate is right for regulatory reform. While deregulation is often put forward as a desirable measure of reform, it may not lend itself to the complex area of health and safety regulation. The Consumer Product Safety Act (CPSA) offers a possible alternative to deregulation in its ""Offeror system."" The ""Offeror system"" provision in the CPSA delegates the authority for drafting proposed standards to the private sector and requires maximum public participation in this process. The ""Offeror system"" provides a substantive public check on the regulations promulgated by the Consumer Product Safety Commission."
10.2307_974742	1976	"The article examines the state of the art of American public administration during the past 20 years and assesses the effects of efforts to apply derivations of that art in developing countries. It concludes that chief successes have been in transferring administrative technologies; that there have been significant failures and inadequacies, particularly in public administration education in developing countries; and that a root problem of promoting development through improved public administration has been one of seeking developmental outcomes from system-maintenance oriented tools and concepts."
10.2307_976004	1982	"Chester I. Barnard was influential in the development of administrative thought at a critical time. His book, The Functions of the Executive, inspired the generation of scholars and practitioners following him. The most neglected aspect of Barnard's book, however, was his philosophy on the twin themes of managerial morality and elitism. This article proposes that one of the chief reasons why Barnard wrote on these subjects was to establish management's legitimacy as the true leader of modern industrial societies. Given the period when he wrote, his claim for management's emerging role was in the nature of a prophecy. The extent to which this prophecy was fulfilled, and what its prospects are for the future are examined."
10.2307_3110199	1980	"Examination of state and local government work force figures for 1973 and 1975 (the most recent year for which such figures are currently available) reveals that the number of white male employees fell both absolutely and proportionally over that period. Marked gains were made by white women and by black men and women. Nonetheless, by 1975, state and local governments were still a long way from reflecting the demographic makeup of the American population. Moreover, minorities and women (with the exception of Asian Americans) were still far below white males in terms of the status of their positions, as indicated by median salary levels, and women actually lost ground to white males in this regard between 1973 and 1975. There is substantial variation across functional areas in the quantity and status of the positions held by minorities and women, with some areas being particularly deficient in the sheer number of minority and female employees, others lacking high status positions for these groups, and others falling short in both respects."
10.2307_975920	1983	"Uncertainties in petroleum availability and pricing have stimulated research and development in alternative energy technologies in both industrialized countries and developing countries. The production of energy from renewable natural resources has received considerable attention. The major biomass feedstocks-wood, grass, and crop residues, as well as animal wastes-have been and continue to be important fuels in many countries of the world, although the efficiency with which they are used is low. New demands for alternative energy sources have stimulated research and development for new ""energy"" species as well as new biomass technologies. However, these developments have the potential for serious environmental degradation, particularly with respect to deforestation in tropical and sub-tropical countries. Indonesia is an example of a country with a great potential for energy from biomass but where that development must be carefully planned in order to prevent major environmental problems. In both developing and industrialized countries, policies which encourage biological and technological developments in the production of energy from biomass in an environmentally sound manner should be supported."
10.2307_975673	1978	"Much has changed since a common personnel goal in organizations was to assure a supply of ""round pegs for round holes"" by suitable testing and training. More dynamic concepts have attracted much recent attention. They focus on the employee as incredibly diverse and as changing significantly during the course of employment. One such dynamic concept seeks to distinguish phases or stages of human development, to which organization policies and structures ideally should be sensitive. This article emphasizes one of these developmental phases or stages-the ""mid-life transition."" The major known features of that transition are described, and the transition is associated with the ""mid-career crisis"" which seems increasingly common. Mid-career crisis is characterized by serious questioning of personal identities and values, which often result in dramatic career shifts by those previously considered successful in their organizational or professional roles."
10.2307_976291	1978	"This article examines the periodical literature of public administration in order to discern the scope and direction of the field. Through a statistical analysis of the articles published in seven journals, the contents and contributors to the literature in the '70s are discussed. The intellectual perspective, subject matter, and research methodology of 1,407 articles includes their institutional affiliation, professional identification, organizational rank, and sex. A number of interesting findings about the characteristics of the literature are reported that generally reflect the broad, interdisciplinary nature of the study of public administration. The evidence demonstrates, however, that the journal literature is not necessarily representative of the membership or content of the field."
10.2307_974695	1977	"This article analyzes the problems which have accompanied the growth of the citizen participation and public interest movements. The principle problems identified are the potential shortsightedness of the administrative response to citizen demands, problems of representation and legitimacy, the style and tactics of citizen groups, and the absence of sophisticated cost-benefit analysis of public interest policies and programs. The author suggests that public participation which is not carefully ordered and constrained by administrators can lead to poorly conceived, unrepresentative, and costly policy decisions. Administrators are chiefly responsible for the integrity of the administrative process, and sensitivity to citizen demands is no substitute for independent, carefully reasoned, professional judgments regarding the nature of the public interest in each new administrative situation."
10.2307_975377	1980	"Citizen participation is commonly viewed as attempts to influence the formulation of public policy. In this paper, the author argues that citizens also can and do exert important influences on policy through their participation in the execution of public programs. This is particularly the case in human services where change in the client's behavior is the ""product"" which is supposed to be delivered. Citizens ""coproduce"" public services by requesting assistance from service agents, by cooperating with service agents in carrying out agency programs, and by negotiating with service agents to redirect agents' activities. Citizen participation in service delivery is, in fact, often critical to program success."
10.2307_3110381	1979	"While the concept of power has always been a concern to students of political science and public administration, it has been examined only peripherally in the last few years. Recent work by McClelland has indicated that power may be a very important variable in explaining managerial behavior and organizational effectiveness. Starting with a definition of power provided by McClelland, this paper develops a conceptual framework for analyzing power-related behavior in an organizational setting. The framework is then applied to a problem area of particular interest to the authors-the question of whether or not women managers can be expected to behave differently than their male counterparts because of possible differences in their orientations toward power. We conclude that differences in power needs will not impede the effectiveness of female managers, but women may be at a disadvantage in the work environment due to possible differences in the way they express these needs."
10.2307_975423	1983	"This study presents empirical documentation as to the price structure of new bond issues sold through a state bond bank. The findings indicated that bond bank issues which are negotiated sales sell at borrowing costs equivalent to comparable competitively sold issues. When examining the interest cost savings to individual issuers, the findings revealed that all negotiated issues and most small competitively sold issues could achieve significant interest cost savings by selling their bonds through a bond bank. In general, the smaller the bond issue and the lower the bond rating, the greater the interest cost savings. The major policy implication of this study is that bond banks are a state assistance program that can help small, low-rated bond issuers reduce their new issue borrowing cost. Participating municipalities gain access to the national primary market, to achieve economies of scale in underwriting cost, and benefit from reduced default risk by co-insuring one another."
10.2307_3109918	1979	"Surprisingly little research has been reported on what is frequently asserted to be a serious personnel problem in government-the harmful impact of civil service systems upon incentives and motivation. This study reports a comparison of questionnaire responses by government and business managers which indicates that the government managers: 1) perceive a weaker relationship between their performance and such incentives as pay, promotion, and job security, 2) feel that the formal personnel procedures governing their organizations provide much less flexibility in administration of such incentives (for example, they are much more likely to feel that it is difficult to fire a manager who is a poor performer), 3) score lower on scales of satisfaction with promotion and satisfaction with co-workers. Implications for civil service reform, for further research, and for theory are discussed."
10.2307_975645	1982	"Decision makers in environmental health rely on the results of scientific research for their understanding of the relationships between environmental hazards and health. A two phase procedure is described which can aid that understanding. The first phase classifies epidemiological and clinical research studies according to the nature of the evidence which they present, using a criterion based on statistical significance. The concept of believability is then developed, which goes beyond the statistical significance of the results to encompass important aspects of the design and conduct of the research. Believability is assessed in the second phase of the procedure by assigning points to various aspects of the study. The point values are related to research methods in the health sciences which are effective for identifying causal relationships. An example of the two phase believability assessment procedure is presented, and its use in environmental health planning and decision making is discussed."
10.2307_975412	1978	"Local government effectiveness is hampered by the operational separation between the administration and the elected officials. While both groups verbalize their commitment to ""better government"", a host of traditions, myths, stereotypes, and communication problems discourage high levels of interaction, trust, and mutual support. Each of the authors was selected by a different local jurisdiction to design and lead a team-building program which would unify the administrative and elected groups and improve their overall effectiveness. In this article, they point out both the individual differences and the commonalities between their two experiences. Culminating in off-site workshops, their efforts helped to develop specific skills in clarifying goals and roles, in communicating effectively with each other, and in applying new techniques in solving the real problems of the jurisdictions. The authors describe the design features of their programs as well as the risks, the benefits, and the problems which may be anticipated in carrying out such programs. Other local government administrators and their elected groups will benefit from these experiences in considering the possible advantages of a ""team-building"" approach which would enable them to deal more effectively with the growing problems in their own localities."
10.2307_974583	1976	"The Domestic Council was an innovation of President Nixon's first term designed to assist in managing domestic affairs. The Council on Executive Management (the Ash Council) recognized the need to give the President the tools necessary to exercise policy control over the functions of the Executive Branch. The Domestic Council was created along with the new Office of Management and Budget to fulfill that task. Domestic Council staff members exercised broad and significant authority over ""presidential priority"" issues, encompassing a wide range of legislative, budgetary, personnel, and policy decisions. The Council has proved to be a useful instrument for planning and managing government action, and should assist future Presidents in domestic policy planning."
10.2307_974823	1977	"This article was originally prepared for a graduate course in public administration at Golden Gate University, San Francisco. It attempts to trace the immediate history of the particular lawsuit in question, to spell out some of the issues raised therein, and to place the lawsuit in a broader social perspective. Many recent conditions and events have combined to increase competition for police (and many other public service) jobs. Minority group members, however one wants to define that term, are often statistically misrepresented in these desirable jobs. But the currently popular ""remedy"" for minority misrepresentation, quota hiring, is actually a perversion of the legitimate principle, ""equality of opportunity,"" into what the author sees as an illegitimate principle: ""equality of results."" While the case at hand relates specifically to the situation in the San Francisco Police Department, the author hopes the reader will see immediate parallels to his or her own functional area. The views expressed in this paper are those of the author, a lower-level line supervisor in the SFPD. They do not necessarily reflect the views of the SFPD as a whole."
10.2307_3110306	1980	"In 1968, the late Kermit Gordon, then president of The Brookings Institution, asked me to contribute an extended essay on ""Managing the Federal Government"" to a volume to be entitled Agenda for the Nation (Washington, D.C., The Brookings Institution, 1968). The volume was a series of papers on domestic and foreign-policy issues prepared for the benefit of whoever would take over as President of the United States in January 1969. What follows is an attempt to update what I then wrote and to defend even more forcefully than I did then the concept that the central problems of governance in the United States are not managerial in a narrow structural sense, but political in a dynamic, consensual sense. I am grateful to The Brookings Institution for their willingness to allow me to use parts of my 1968 paper for this 1980 PAR essay."
10.2307_975724	1981	"Much field research now purports to demonstrate that flexible work hours reliably improve organizational performance, employee satisfaction and productivity, and management/employee relations, but this research usually relies on subjective measures and ignores important dimensions or organizational behavior. In an experiment at the U. S. Social Security Administration, ""flex-time"" elicited generally favorable subjective evaluations, but objective indicators of performance and employee commitment produced mixed results and there were tentative signs of declining supervisor/employee rapport. Several observations, including an unexpected rise in leave usage, suggested that employees valued flex-time principally for rewards obtained away from the work site. The analysis suggests several points of caution to guide future research: (1) Flex-time may augment the intrinsic rewards of work already enjoyed by white collar employees while reemphasizing the relative attractiveness of domestic life for blue collar employees; (2) The gains observed in prior research may reflect a ""Hawthorne"" effect and be short lived, and as enthusiasm for flex-time wanes, the alienating effects of problems not remedied by flex-time might reasonably be expected to reassert themselves with redoubled force; (3) Therefore, future research must be extended to encompass the effects of the entire work setting as well as employees' domestic interests; and (4) managers who rely on poorly conceived field research to test flex-time must be prepared to encounter unanticipated problems in the long-term."
10.2307_974762	1975	"The new Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974, heralded by some as the most important budget reform measure since the Budget and Accounting Act of 1921, has the objective of enabling Congress to gain a better control over spending priorities and other aspects of the budget process. It provides for new congressional institutions, an improved analytical capability, a revised timetable with the fiscal year shifted to begin October 1, and a demand on the President to furnish additional budget data. It further curtails the President's authority to withhold appropriations. Its new Budget Committees, assisted by a new Congressional Budget Office, are to take the lead in establishing target relationship between appropriation totals and revenue expectations early in each session and then lead in reaffirming the congressional position, once appropriation totals are known just before the beginning of the new fiscal year. It also requires an overt congressional approval of any appropriation rescissions. New officials, tasked with carrying out the Act, concur in the difficulty of this undertaking because of the stringent time limitations, the complexity of forces to be reconciled, and the scope of decisions to be made."
10.2307_974538	1975	"Historically in America two branches of management science have developed: one in the private sector and one in the public sector. Recently, this conventional taxonomy has been challenged and around the country there is emerging a more generic approach to management. This article argues that management has universal applications whether it be in the profit or business sector or in the non-profit public sector. While there are important distinctions to be made, this article concludes that management in the private sector and in the public sector are more similar than different."
10.2307_975503	1978	"In a tax system based largely on voluntary compliance, the taxpayer's standards of tax ethics are extremely important. Also of significance are attitudes about fiscal and tax policies, tax audits and the audit experience, proper bases of tax burden allocation, the equity and efficiency of tax administration, and the shortcomings of the federal income tax. A survey of one set of taxpayers suggests that their overall level of tax ethics should receive a mark of only ""barely passing"" (60.3 on a scale of 100) and that a number of social, economic, and political variables are significantly related to variations in standards of tax ethics. Taxpayers are also particularly dissatisfied with the burdens which the federal income tax places on the middle-income taxpayer. On the other hand, they generally have faith in the administrative efficiency of tax agencies, feel that people should pay taxes according to their ability, feel that they pay about the same amount of taxes as others in similar situations, and feel they get just about the same amount of benefit from government as they pay in taxes. Taxpayers also may be less ignorant about fiscal and tax matters than might have been assumed."
10.2307_975718	1981	"Hostility toward government bureaucracy is nothing new, but in this country in recent years, the fear that bureaucracy is out of control has become almost universal. The apparent consensus, however, rests on ambiguities that cloak substantial disagreements. Moreover, even if the ambiguities are eliminated, there is as much evidence contradicting the consensus as supporting it. Still, the reason for the fear clamors for explanation. One possibility is that the organizational dynamics that shapes our lives is governed by its own internal logic, and only our predisposition to assume that somebody must be running things leads us to blame the functionaries of organizations for our system's characteristics. If so, we should revise our assumptions and look for a deeper understanding of the dynamics, not for scapegoats."
10.2307_975376	1980	"Although recent attention has been given to the importance of anticipating implementation problems before programs are launched on a large scale, little has been offered in the way concrete examples of how implementation analyses can be conducted. This paper presents an implementation analysis for a case management information system intended to serve as a tool for prosecution management. The experiences of two case management information prototypes serve as a basis for conducting an implementation analysis that predicts the difficulties likely to be encountered by other case management information system adopters. The predictions are then compared to the experiences of the first 20 adopters of one of the prototypes. Attention is given to the role of technical assistance in the implementation process."
10.2307_974741	1976	"In order to speed their reaction time as well as to induce an attractive quality of life, public agencies are making increasing use of the behavioral sciences. This article illustrates one such application of the ""laboratory approach,"" whose goal was to speed the development of a managerial team and to help build a specific climate for interpersonal and intergroup relationships. The philosophy and techniques illustrated are particularly appropriate in organizations which are change-oriented and whose missions have significant developmental or research features."
10.2307_3110081	1981	"Higher education in public administration experienced bountiful growth in recent years. This trend may be threatened, however, by declining enrollments, and the recruiting of students may assume an ever-increasing role in graduate public administration education. This manuscript reports the results of a survey of the recruiting practices evidenced in NASPAA member institutions. Current practices range from limited involvement-a brochure or poster-to expensive, multi-media promotions. Targets of recruiting efforts and requirements of recruits vary according to institutional characteristics, but many practices-e.g., waiving admission requirements, using bulletin board posters-are widespread. Many schools attest to the importance of recruiting and a large number feel their current practices will be inadequate for meeting future demands."
10.2307_976267	1981	"In Elrod v. Burns and Branti v. Finkel the U. S. Supreme Court restricted patronage dismissals to only those positions where ""party affiliation is an appropriate requirement for the effective performance of the public office involved."" This essay argues that the Supreme Court's decisions have five major flaws-(1) the positions covered are unclear, (2) ""effective performance"" may involve partisan judgments, (3) several vital state interests that patronage can attain are ignored, (4) the decisions are inconsistent with other laws and policies, and (5) the societal benefits of patronage are minimized."
10.2307_976264	1981	"This article defines and documents the ""conspiracy"" of public administration theory and social theory generally over public administration professionals. Defined generically as the act of using specialized knowledge to control or manipulate others, conspiracy as a characteristic of theory is manifested in the tendency to disregard or distort the commonsense understanding of research subjects and to disguise normative judgments as neutral methodological assumptions. An alternative and nonconspiratorial approach to public administration theory, referred to as action theory (or the action frame of reference), is proposed. Action theory is employed as the context in which some key assumptions of behaviorist psychology, public choice theory, and contemporary organization development are criticized. Finally, some suggestions are made regarding the relevance of action theory to nonconspiratorial administrative practice."
10.2307_976210	1979	The passage of the Civil Service Reform Act constitutes the first major overhaul of the civil service since the system was created in 1883. This study investigates the attitudes of top level executives toward the reform measures. Responses were analyzed from questionnaires received from 1207 career federal executives at the GS 15-18 levels. This was followed by 25 personal interviews. The authors conclude that there was not a great mandate of support for the Carter proposal. On the positive side the lack of support is not high enough to preordain it to failure.
10.2307_975624	1980	"Increasingly, generalist administrators in the public sector are venturing beyond traditional management control functions. This article, in case study format, addresses that development. It focuses on the author's experience in trying to apply a generalist perspective in a regional office of the highly fragmented HEW bureaucracy. It addresses that experience in terms of the strategic framework used, the major roles played, and the successes and failures encountered. At the close, it stresses how the effective performance of generalist roles is dependent on a carefully cultivated external perspective and a finely tuned awareness of the common concerns facing generalist administrators."
10.2307_975132	1976	"In order to increase the coordination or integration of services, it is necessary to measure what the service-providing organizations are actually doing. Traditionally, service agencies have been able to preserve autonomy by resisting rigorous measurement and evaluation. This study explores what happens when a new technology, which demands measurement and increases the possibilities for evaluation and control, is introduced into such a setting. It is a study of the impacts of a computerized information system on eight neighborhood service organizations and their funding sources. The interorganizational impacts are explored in terms of standardization, autonomy and control, clarification of goals, clarification of decision criteria, clarification of organizational linkages, consulting roles, and interorganizational dependence."
10.2307_976293	1978	"The Law Enforcement Assistance Administration has been a source of controversy since its establishment in 1968. This article examines the statutory structure of the agency and the role it has played in the criminal justice improvement efforts of the last eight years. It discusses the pre-requisites for success in criminal justice program planning and implementation and concludes that the missing element has been the establishment of a horizontal ""systemic problem orientation"" at the local level which cuts across police, courts, corrections, and other components of the criminal justice system. It argues that the primary objective of LEAA should be the establishment of this perspective and concludes that the agency has been unable to carry out its promise of federal leadership in this regard because of its statutory structural deficiencies. It details the primary weaknesses of the present structure and advocates several changes to the agency's legislative structure aimed at creating a systemic perspective by re-orienting the financial and technical assistance delivery mechanism away from the state level toward the local level."
10.2307_975737	1981	"Many local governments faced with fiscal stress have stumbled into a period of helpless indecision, unable to make necessary expenditure reductions for fear of political conflict and further fragmentation of authority. But not all cities faced with financial problems have developed political crises. In some cases, the extent of fiscal stress has not been severe or has occurred gradually over a long period of time allowing officials to adjust budgets in small decrements. In still other cases, the level of politicization of the community and the design of the government structure have provided the managerial authority and political power necessary to avoid overcommitting expenditures during resource expansion, and to smoothly reduce expenditure levels when resources have declined. While, from an historical perspective, low levels of politicization and firm executive control may be found in strong mayor governments, they are especially likely to occur in cities that have adopted a council-manager form. Such cities adopted the council-manager plan in part to centralize control of budgeting and personnel management in the hands of the city manager. Reformed cities might therefore be expected to manage retrenchment with a minimum of disruption. This article describes the expected behavior of city manager cities under conditions of fiscal stress and resource scarcity, and then compares the expected and actual retrenchment behavior of two reformed cities-Oakland, California, and Cincinnati, Ohio."
10.2307_975644	1982	"This paper suggests that the use of rulemaking as an alternative means of implementation can have policy consequences and, as a result, can have significant political implications. In the case of the Federal Trade Commission, the balance of forces in the agency's political environment has proved dominant in determining its willingness to rely on rulemaking. Similarly, the commission's emphasis on rulemaking in recent years has significantly altered its relationship with key members of its environment."
10.2307_3110308	1980	"The national movement by state legislatures to appropriate federal funds in line-item detail is analyzed using national sources and information gathered through a case study of one state's efforts to deal with this issue. Arguments supporting and opposing detailed state legislative appropriation of federal funds are presented. In-depth interviews with state administrators and legislative staff analysts in Pennsylvania over a three-year period reveal that although state agencies are adjusting to the requirements of the new appropriation procedures, a number of substantial problems have arisen. Growing out of a major conflict between state executive and legislative officials, the new federal funds appropriation procedure in Pennsylvania has resulted in minor conflict situations (delays, some loss of federal funds); conflict between the executive and legislative branches; conflict between the state and the federal government; and, finally, the danger of politicizing state administration."
10.2307_976090	1982	"Publicity and advertising activities by federal agencies are of broad scope, wide diversity and deep significance. These activities began as the Republic was born, and have grown with it. And the rate of growth is accelerating. This phenomenon raises important questions concerning administration, the public interest, and scholarly research. The administrative questions addressed in this paper focus on the effectiveness and efficiency with which publicity and advertising activities are conducted by the federal government. The public interest questions center upon the role that such activities should play in a democracy. By raising these questions, the authors hope to stimulate debate, provoke discussion, and inspire research among public administrators, elected officials, and scholars."
10.2307_975975	1982	"As government resources shrink and the demand for accountability increases, administrators of human services are concerned with protecting the rights of recipients and providers of services, as well as enforcing programmatic standards. A recent U. S. Supreme Court case, dealing with decertification of a nursing home which served Medicare and Medicaid patients, illustrates how these competing rights and interests are balanced. While patients have a ""right"" to nursing home care, this right does not extend to participation in the decision-making process when a provider is decertified. The implications of this case extend to other areas in which eligible recipients have a ""right"" to services."
10.2307_975742	1981	"The Ethics in Government Act of 1978 for the first time requires senior federal executives publicly to disclose the details of their personal financial interests. The conflict of interest criminal statutes establish the standards for review of the disclosure reports. The advance review and clearance process for presidential nominees, which the Office of Government Ethics administers and upon which the confirmation committees of the Senate rely, is intended to protect the president and his nominees by prospectively enforcing prohibitions against abuses of public office for private financial gain."
10.2307_974846	1976	"A decade of development for the field of Comparative Administration is over and the surface indications for its future are bleak. This article examines some of the failings and achievements of the Comparative Administration Movement, the assumptions and purposes it began with, the fads and fancies it embraced, and the mixed legacy it has left for school and practitioners. In sum, there are interesting and helpful parallels between the impact of the Behavioral Movement in Political Science and effects of the Comparative Administration Movement in Public Administration. Both movements have dwindled as identifiable self-contained protest against the prevailing orthodoxy and both have redefined and expanded the larger field of study of which each are respectably a part."
10.2307_976039	1978	"As part of the renewed concern about the purpose and meaning of public administration in both academia and government, this paper is an empirical examination of the academic/practitioner interface problem in public administration. The following three issues are analyzed: the relative importance of sources of administration knowledge, barriers to the utilization of knowledge, and ways to transfer research findings into administrative practice. While this study shows that problems between academicians and managers in public administration exist, they are not as serious nor as deep as one might assume. The worlds of scholarship and executive leadership interface by forming a common boundary across which many attitudes are shared about the sources and dissemination of knowledge, objectives of research and barriers to its implementation, and methods used to link theory to practice."
10.2307_975424	1983	"Even in the face of mounting financial problems, the presumed priority given to productivity improvement by local governments and the anticipated value of increased productivity information dissemination may both have been overstated. Data obtained from a survey of 298 chief administrators in local government reveals that productivity improvement must compete with other pressing issues for administrative attention and does not generally enjoy top priority. The survey results furthermore suggest that few administrators are very familiar with the productivity literature which is already available to them. Such findings cast doubt on the likelihood of success of the widely espoused strategy of increased productivity information dissemination as a means of improving performance and lead the authors of this article to conclude that stronger incentives must be provided in order to promote administrative initiative in productivity improvement."
10.2307_974844	1976	"This article outlines a method for integrating the study of ethics into a PA curriculum. Its starting point is the normative implication that arises from administrative discretion and the relationship between such discretion and the political role of the bureaucrat. There follows a criticism of the tendency of ""New PA"" literature to rely upon political philosophy and humanistic psychology as the foundations for ethical reflections. The values of the regime are suggested as a more appropriate foundation for the study of ethics for bureaucrats. Supreme Court opinions on such salient values as freedom, property, and equality are offered as the most appropriate means of studying American values. An extended argument is developed to defend the choice of Supreme Court opinions for this purpose."
10.2307_975795	1981	"As a complex, multi-component ""program,"" the Senior Executive Service has generated multiple and conflicting expectations around the government. These divergent views may create a problem when SES undergoes its congressionally mandated fifth-year review: which evaluative standards should be used to judge the performance of SES? This article seeks to contribute to a consensus on evaluative standards. Drawing on interviews with more than 50 policy makers, SES members, personnel specialists and legislators, the article analyzes the logic behind the SES program, reviews the problems that have emerged during the early stages of implementation, and, in light of the logic and the problems, proposes three ""minimum standards,"" performance against which will provide clear evidence of whether SES is on course at the five year point."
10.2307_975951	1979	"This paper assesses the impacts and effectiveness of federal policy for the diffusion of computer applications among local governments. Federal policies toward application diffusion are described along three dimensions-objectives, design approaches, and transfer mechanisms. These policies are examined in light of findings from six recent empirical studies about the processes which lead to the diffusion of computer applications. The assessment reveals that none of the present federal design approaches or transfer mechanisms seem to be working very well. Alternatives that merit consideration are suggested by the research."
10.2307_975939	1979	Managing the consultant episode has not been carefully considered in the past. The public manager should be aware of the complexity of this activity. This article discusses factors involved in managing consultants and offers specific prescriptions.
10.2307_976263	1981	"Public service bureaucracies often distribute valuable goods and services yet many eligible citizens do not participate in their programs. Although available figures are somewhat inconsistent, nonparticipation rates appear to hover around 50 percent. Many of the decisions made by those who organize, administer, and work in these programs contribute to low utilization rates. Nonmonetary costs are imposed on citizens seeking assistance. Applying for many public programs is a demeaning experience characterized by long delays and complex procedures. The process requires citizens to pay both psychological and time costs to obtain service. In addition, the complexity of the programs allows street-level bureaucrats to control access to many aspects of the service via their monopoly over program information. Many public service agencies ration the services they are charged with delivering. This rationing is not formally sanctioned by responsible institutions and is therefore illegitimate."
10.2307_975176	1975	"Bureaucratic theory has generally assumed a life cycle to bureaucracies, positing that they become increasingly stagnant and conservative with age. The ability to sense the need for change, and to be able to change, are assumed to be qualities possessed only by young agencies. The U. S. Army Corps of Engineers has often been characterized as typical of a mature, stagnant bureaucracy both unwilling and unable to change. Yet an examination of the Corps indicates that such change is indeed occurring. This raises questions not only about the continued characterization of the Corps as a conservative agency, but also about the general theoretical assumption that mature bureaucracies are inherently stagnant."
10.2307_975500	1978	"Zero-base budgeting and incrementalism co-exist in the State of Georgia. Evidence obtained through interviews with Georgia budget officials indicates that zero-base budgeting procedures have had only a marginal impact on the traditional practices of budget preparation. However, despite the persistence of incremental budgeting practices, ZBB has been able to function as a management approach to budgeting which requires more extensive program information and greater justification for funding requests. The combined effect of incrementalism's propensity for marginal change and ZBB's concern for the elimination or reduction of inefficient and ineffective programs has been to produce a budgeting system which seeks to improve the likelihood that an agency's budget will be marginally reduced from one year to the next, rather than marginally increased. The exaggerated claims made on behalf of ZBB notwithstanding, this is the reality of zero-base budgeting in Georgia."
10.2307_975426	1983	"The federal-state-local partnership of the last two decades is undergoing substantive change, and traditional management approaches may no longer prove effective-given today's climate of increasing costs and diminishing sources of revenue. The present study looks at one partner in this relationship, local government, to determine what measures are being taken to meet these changes. Mayors and managers of 90 municipalities within the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania were surveyed on a number of issues, such as economic development, productivity, and the effects of state and federal mandates. In addition, they were asked to indicate what strategies they would adopt to deal with anticipated reductions and cut-backs. The findings indicate that local officials are less sanguine about future developments and continue to react in a decremental fashion, making marginal adjustments while hoping that resources and services can somehow be restored. Possible steps for approaching change in a systematic manner are presented for consideration."
10.2307_975832	1983	"This paper, prompted in part by the approach of the 100th anniversary of Woodrow Wilson's classic essay on public administration, attempts three tasks: (1) It reinterprets that essay to emphasize Wilson's concern not only with the separation of politics and administration, but with the advantage of providing ""large powers"" to administrative officials; (2) it outlines the concept of ""policy entrepreneur"" that flows from this Wilsonian perspective; (3) it reviews the evolution of the public authority, which is seen to exemplify the wide-ranging themes and implications of the 1887 essay-including both the advantages of administrative discreation and entrepreneurship, and the hazards of weakened accountability and integrity that attend such freedom."
10.2307_975835	1983	"Among the most important developments in regulatory administration in recent years have been an increased reliance on rule making, and the use of due process requirements and cost-benefit analysis to control rule-making decisions. These devices have been intended to promote comprehensive rationality in the implementation of statutes. As such, they may be inappropriate for dealing with many of the broad policy issues regulatory agencies must confront."
10.2307_3110309	1980	"A number of studies have been made in recent years on the impact of public employee unions on wages and working hours of employees. These analyses have been cross-sectional in design, however, thus placing the validity of their findings in doubt. The question of whether wages and hours have increased/decreased at a greater rate in unionized cities than in non-unionized cities is still unanswered. This article examines the impact of fire fighter unionization on wages and working hours during the 1960 to 1970 time period. Critical union variables assessed are the formation of a union local and changes in contracts and dues check-off systems-both indicators of union ""strength."" Unlike previous analyses of fire fighter unionization, this article finds that unionization has a moderate impact upon wages and working hours."
10.2307_975949	1979	"Questionnaires were mailed to graduates of nine major MPA and MPP programs across the nation. A portion of the questionnaires concerned internships, and the findings indicate that non-interns as a group appear to have higher levels of supervisory responsibilities and a greater commitment to the public service than do former interns."
10.2307_976261	1981	"This paper seeks to describe-at a time of perceived parallelism between President Reagan's and Prime Minister Thatcher's philosophies-British central government's struggle to maintain control of a deteriorating economic situation. Concentrating on the key strategic areas of public expenditure planning, public sector employment and organizational change, an attempt is made to identify the main structural constraints on policy making. Data from a variety of recent sources is assembled to illustrate the impacts of government policies during the 1970s. Some tentative comparisons with U. S. trends are indicated."
10.2307_975979	1982	"This paper examines changes in the organizational structure and regulatory policies of the U. S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission since the 1979 accident at Three Mile Island. When viewed within the context of the literature on regulatory politics and administrative reorganization, the reforms undertaken thus far may have little impact on the quality of the NRC's decision making or on the safety of nuclear reactors in general. Moreover, the limited changes that have occurred since Three Mile Island fail to address several of the larger administrative and political issues concerning the performance of regulatory agencies and how to evaluate it."
10.2307_974763	1975	"Four alternative conceptions of accountability are discussed and illustrated through examples in health administration. The symbolic use of accountability is as a gesture only. An administrator may make vague promises about improving accountability mechanisms, but never follow through. He may use accountability as a rallying point to mobilize a constituency or banner calling for moral education. Accountability may be an ongoing political process as the administrator reacts to the pressures of particular interest groups, depending on the power they wield. Here only a change in relative power will produce a significant change in accountability. A formal system of checks and balances promotes accountability. Often, however, behind the scene the real power wielders make decisions, then legitimate them through the formal system. Finally, the guidance approach sees accountability as the interaction of all these factors plus a moral base, with the administrator playing an active role in mobilizing, educating, forming new alternatives, and coalition building."
10.2307_976262	1981	"Persistent inflation has been a major problem for several years, but public administration has not responded as it should. Current compensation policies may be contributing to the problem and recent trends in collective negotiations offer no solution. A proposal to establish a partially retroactive compensation system with several unique anti-inflationary features is outlined to illustrate how public administrators can combat inflation."
10.2307_976123	1982	"Our concerns over energy, the urban crisis, and our unhealthy environment have demonstrated the urgency of a new commitment of human energy and resources to public transportation policy making. This research was designed to obtain systematic input from academics, policy makers and leaders of commuter groups on how various policy alternatives being considered by county, state and federal transit policy makers would probably affect public transportation usage in the New York metropolitan region. Some of these policies have already been implemented in other areas of the nation. Others are currently under consideration. Respondents to a mailed questionnaire were asked to predict how each of these policy alternatives, if implemented in the New York metropolitan region, would probably affect public transportation ridership in general, as well as their own use of public transportation. They were also asked whether they approve or disapprove of these policies given the probable costs. Thus, the results highlight the differences and similarities among the groups concerning both the political feasibility and probable impacts of the policy alternatives."
10.2307_975531	1982	"Most states use the equalized full value of local jurisdictions in order to apportion state aid and to limit locally imposed tax burdens. New York State determined the equalized full value for New York City, and based on this figure imposed the 1982 taxing limit on the city. This essay describes the limit and the methods New York City used to provide evidence that it was too severe. While this evidence argues for a more liberal tax limit, it argues more forcefully that a tax limit based on direct measurement of full value is a poor administrative device. Since full value is only a vaguely definable concept and the relevant data is sparse, it does not lend itself to accurate measurement. In fact, it mandates both expensive oversights of the tax limitation by states and displays of brinksmanship and unnecessary contingency planning by local jurisdictions."
10.2307_975854	1983	"This article presents a planning and management technique that allows the imagination to visualize the future, to understand possible plans of attack, and to evaluate one's potential for achieving the desired results. The process incorporates the concepts of Gantt Charting and Critical Path Method, places the Program Evaluations Review Technique (PERT) in a real time frame, and simplifies the complex technology of these techniques. Any task (e. g., design of a form, implementation of a program, development of a budget, or construction of a facility) that can be described by activities and events can be analyzed by a PERT technique. The approach outlined here, the Project Planning and Management Technique (PPMT), is designed to take maximum advantage of the imaginative and random access capability of the human mind. The use of a medium such as three-by-five-inch cards in PPMT allows movable data warranting a highly structured, integrated plan to emerge through a series of methodical steps. Because of its mobility, the medium becomes a vehicle for planning rather than record keeping. Because a usable plan contains more events than can be comfortably manipulated in the mind, this technique permits manipulation of ideas as though they were objects (i. e., outside the mind) and allows time relationships to be seen rather than simply thought about."
10.2307_975626	1980	"Despite growing concern over the growth of American public expenditures, there is no consensus on the nature of that growth. This research attempts to define the nature of that growth through an analysis of recent trends in American public spending. The findings suggest several conclusions. First, public expenditures have been growing as a share of the total American economy at least since World War II. Second, the responsibility for that growth must be shared at least equally by the federal government and state-local governments, rather than being laid primarily on the federal government. Third, the growth may mean the evolution of a kind of welfare state, but, if so, it is a peculiarly American welfare state without a pronounced redistributive impact."
10.2307_975792	1981	"Mandating by the federal government on state governments and by the federal and state governments on local governments has been expanding each year in quantity, range, and scope. The practice has proliferated to the point where its impacts have become one of local governments' most serious concerns. Inventories of federal mandates and of state mandates in California, New Jersey, Wisconsin, North Carolina, and Washington demonstrate the types, numbers, and rapid growth of mandates, particularly in the last two decades. Research in 10 local governments suggests that each local jurisdiction is affected by nearly a thousand mandates and that the mandates have added to the cost and have altered substantially the activities of local governments. Mandates are an exploding issue because of a confluence of political-institutional considerations-federalist issues, standardization issues, and political accountability issues, and the interaction of several operational issues-who should pay, cost-benefit considerations, displacement effects, efficiency considerations, and questions about the pointlessness of many mandates. The policy initiatives that are being urged on states, and to a lesser extent, on the federal government by local governments to mitigate some of the effects of mandates are outlined and discussed."
10.2307_975627	1980	"The rise of the administrative state has profound consequences for the nature of citizenship in democratic nations. One of the problems it poses concerns the citizen's right to redress wrongful and harmful administrative action. Traditionally, the behavior of administrative officials was cloaked in ""absolute"" immunity. During the 1970s, however, the Supreme Court moved to make it possible for citizens to recover damagers from administrative officials who act out of malice or in the absence of information they reasonably should have. The new approach to the question of administrators' immunity strikes a healthy balance between the needs of the individual and those of the administrative state."
10.2307_3109919	1979	"Analysis of planned expenditures in the first two years of the Community Development Block Grant program for a sample of 147 metropolitan entitlement communities is presented. The planned shift in activities from the categorical grant-in-aid programs to the current block grant system is the focus. Local officials continue to be led by previous plans and commitments in the Urban Renewal, Neighborhood Development, and Model Cities Programs. Flexibility provided local officials under the block grant program, however, is not being ignored. A number of lower income neighborhoods that were formerly excluded from federal community development plans, in addition to an even larger number of wealthier neighborhoods have been included in block grant plans. The projects planned for the newly added target areas appear to emphasize neighborhood preservation and growth strategies. If commitments to former categorical program areas decrease, and the current plans in new areas are expanded, it appears that the percentage of CDBG funds directed to low and moderate income neighborhoods will also decrease. These findings raise questions for the ability of new federalism programs to achieve national goals while giving local officials wide discretion."
10.2307_975723	1981	"Although competition is a time honored means of satisfying consumer demands for efficient and effective provision of goods and services in the marketplace, it was rarely used deliberately in providing government services directly to the public. Recently, however, this approach has been instituted and it deserves examination. In a number of cities, both the municipality and one or more private firms provide the same ""public"" service to residents, namely, residential refuse collection. This study reviews the origins of such competitive systems and examines them in six U. S. cities, addressing the reasons for their introduction. It goes on to compare and contrast the six systems, and compares the relative performance of the public and private sectors within each city. The study reaches the conclusion that as a matter of local government policy, competitive systems merit more widespread use in delivering public services."
10.2307_975300	1983	"This article attempts to define ""coproduction"" in a manner useful to policy makers and to academics concerned with measuring the concept. Coproduction is considered the critical mix of activities that service agents and citizens contribute to the provision of public services. The involvement of the former consists of their work as professionals, or ""regular producers,"" in the service process. Citizen coproductive activities, or ""consumer production,"" are voluntary efforts of individuals or groups to enhance the quality and/or quantity of services they receive. Based on this definition, three types of coproduction are distinguished according to the nature of the benefits achieved: individual, group, and collective."
10.2307_3110257	1980	"The only noble laureate to have served as a city councilman is George Bernard Shaw. With wit and prescience, writing on his experiences more than three quarters of a century ago, his words and reflections are as fresh and current as today's newspaper headlines concerning municipal administration. This article collects some of his writings, places them in current public administration terminology and provides the reader an opportunity to relax and enjoy the words of a practitioner and toiler in the municipal vineyards. It is also an example of thoughtful writing on important subjects that is not obtuse."
10.2307_975375	1980	"The National Forest System's program planning system is the mechanism by which the organization formulates medium-range plans and generates budget requests for congressional consideration. This system allows NFS managers to examine and negotiate different strategies for deploying their resources within broad politically-determined guidelines. Each manager proposes alternative plans for managing his unit in such a way that the selected alternative provides the standard against which his performance is measured. The alternatives reflect various possible levels of funding and activity, including a quasi-""zero base"" level. The system has proven to be an effective combination of some of the better features of traditional PPBS, Zero-Based Budgeting, and Management by Objectives."
10.2307_3110262	1980	"While the growth of public employee unions and collective bargaining has stimulated research about their effects on local governments, the precise impacts remain shrouded in myths and polemics. In this review, empirical research about the effects of collective bargaining on local services is examined. A taxonomy is developed to compare and evaluate the research, the preponderance of which has focused on employee wages. Analysis of the research indicates that public employee gains from collective bargaining are not evenly distributed across occupational groups and that collective bargaining has contributed to increased municipal expenditures and fiscal effort. However, research still needs to be undertaken to fill significant gaps in our knowledge about collective bargaining's impacts, particularly with regard to the issues of the efficiency and effectiveness of local government services."
10.2307_976036	1978	"This article reviews the relatively small body of research and discussion on the administrative novel. Beginning with Humbert Wolfe's consideration of stereotypes of public servants in fiction, the author moves through an analysis of bureaucratic conflicts in the novel (H. J. Friedsam), an attempt at establishing criteria for the administrative novel (Rowland Egger), an examination of the credibility of novels in terms of administration (Morton Kroll), a broad survey of administrative novels (Dwight Waldo), and an effort to classify administrative novels into appropriate categories (Howard McCurdy). In addition to the historical synthesis of these efforts by students of administration to identify, classify, and justify the study of novels by scholars and practitioners in the art and science of administration, attention is given to the relationship of the novelist to the scientist at they view administration."
10.2307_975677	1978	"Studies appearing in recent years examining black employment in the U. S. Civil Service have focused on employees in the General Schedule, that is, on roughly half of all full-time federal workers. Moreover, no studies to date have included data from the post-EEOA period. This study, on the other hand, after sketching the background of equal employment opportunity in the federal service, includes not only the General Schedule but other pay schedules as well. It also includes data from the post-EEOA period, compares pre- and post-EEOA progress, and concludes that the Act had had little effect in increasing the proportions of blacks in the upper levels of the federal service as of May 31, 1974."
10.2307_3110260	1980	"The transfer of management theory to practice has become an increasingly important topic in the literature of management. In the November/December, 1978 issue of this review James Bowman reported the results of a comprehensive survey of public administrators and researchers dealing with various issues relating to knowledge utilization in administrative science. The survey was a replication of a 1974 survey of private sector managers and business researchers. Consequently, valuable comparative data were obtained. In this paper, the transfer of administrative theory to practice is conceptualized using the references provided by the theory of intergroup behavior using selected systems analogies. Systems coupling is used to provide a means of examining the transfer of management theory to practice. No normative preconceptions as to the desirability of tight coupling are assumed. Since there are advantageous and disadvantageous aspects of extremely tight and loose coupling, the pragmatic question becomes ""how can administrative theory and practice obtain an 'optimum degree of coupling'?"" One answer to the question is offered in the form of boundary spanning behavior. Some specific suggestions are offered to assist administrators and researchers in developing the boundary consciousness necessary to ensure the efficient and effective transfer of administrative theory to practice."
10.2307_974539	1975	"Federal assistance programs are undergoing change. The author asserts that if present efforts to reform the management of federal assistance programs are to succeed, a more comprehensive understanding of the operational dimensions of existing programs in necessary. Findings and recommendations of the U. S. Commission on Government Procurement suggest a conceptual approach toward development of a model which would permit a systematic analysis of the implementation of all federal assistance programs. An operational model of the federal assistance delivery system would have important implications for federal and non-federal policy makers and administrators of assistance programs as well as for those with an academic interest in intergovernmental relations and federalism."
10.2307_974504	1977	"This article examines recent judicial decisions concerning the constitutionality of public personnel examinations. It is argued that these decisions are challenging the traditional political paradigm of public personnel administration by stressing the value of representation. In so doing, they are forcing public personnel administrators to attempt to develop examinations having a high level of validity and to reconsider the relationship between merit and representation."
10.2307_976266	1981	"The National Park Act of 1916 presented the Park Service with the responsibility of preserving the natural features of park system units while simultaneously providing recreational facilities to make them available to the public. In this paper, a political perspective is used to clarify some of the constraints involved in a pending decision by the Park Service to consider expanding recreational developments on the Apostle Islands National Lakeshore in Wisconsin. These political constraints and the issues in question are similar to those faced by the Park Service for other national seashores and lakeshores. In most cases, these areas were set aside with the support of preservationists as well as a variety of recreation and economic interests. In addition, it was generally understood that recreational use would be promoted in national seashores and lakeshores. Once established, however, these areas have primarily served the interests of preservation groups because they have been kept relatively undeveloped. It is concluded that this lack of follow-through in expanding developments is primarily the result of the Park Service's ideological commitment to preservation, its long history of close ties with preservation groups, and the lack of countervailing pressure from recreation interests."
10.2307_974845	1976	"In recent years productivity bargaining has been heralded as a promising means of increasing productivity in government, particularly at state and local levels. However, analysis of the literature and practice of productivity bargaining indicates that certain inherent conceptual and implementational problems have not been adequately recognized by academics and practitioners. The central problem concerns the failure to recognize that productivity gains may be counterproductive if accompanied by excessive unit cost increases. The unit cost problem, in turn, is particularly relevant for productivity bargaining because of the ""rule"" that premium salary increases should accompany (buy) work rule changes promotive of increased productivity. Finally, longitudinal data on the tradeoff between per capita labor costs and government employment in New York City suggest that the relationship between collective bargaining and service production is a more important managerial problem than the relationship between productivity bargaining and service productivity."
10.2307_976007	1982	"Shifts in American foreign trade, the use of new technologies, and environmental regulation have dramatically changed the public seaport industry over the last 15 years or so. Historically, static and hierarchical institutions, ports now have had to adapt to dynamic change. As an example, in public administration, the more successful ones reorganized their management structures to meet the new contingencies and learned to manage conflict caused by competing interests. Ports on the West Coast are especially representative of these changes and provide useful cases for inquiry into how public enterprises operate under conditions of societal diversity. Using an organization-centered approach, this paper examines and asks questions about the importance of public structures and administrative processes in meeting changed environmental settings."
10.2307_976087	1982	"This article analyzes the development of federal policy toward urban transportation for the elderly and handicapped, focusing on the alternatives of ""mainstreaming"" through making regular transit accessible versus the provision of separate specialized service. This case illustrates the difficulty of policy making in an area characterized by widely divergent views between service providers and consumers and the complexity of policy analysis when the real domain of the issue is unclear, e. g., transportation policy or civil rights policy. The article concludes that the policy finally arrived at by the U. S. Department of Transportation, requiring all regular fixed route transit systems to be made fully accessible, is neither effective nor efficient, and that a return to local prerogative on service delivery would benefit the intended clientele more in terms of not only transportation and mobility, but in the long run the broader mainstreaming of individuals in society."
10.2307_3110076	1981	"This paper analyzes the rule making events and decision processes associated with the implementation of the recently enacted Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, with particular attention centered on the implementation experience in West Virginia. And, more broadly speaking, the paper is concerned with the design of national policies that rely heavily on the states for their effective implementation and administration."
10.2307_976010	1982	"This intensive study of 42 American cities finds that, when well-managed, computers have real payoffs for government operations. Unfortunately, computer technology is not well managed in most cities. As a consequence, computers often generate problems that, while not extreme, are often pervasive. Moreover, many of the payoffs fall far short of expectations. The experience of a few cities, which have successfully managed the technology, however, indicates that the expected payoffs can be reasonably well achieved. One key to the computer's successful management lies in the policies used for the implementation of computing. This study concludes that the single most important policy influencing the success of computing is a commitment to advanced computer technology. Specifically, the more advanced the technology, the greater the payoffs from the computer's application. Other policies, such as user involvement and decentralization of computing, are important too, but currently they appear to have secondary importance in comparison with the state of the technology's development."
10.2307_975646	1982	"This paper summarizes some of the effects of different compressed shift schedules-one entailing four 12-hour days and one having four 10-hour days-in two police organizations. The goal is to investigate whether a compressed shift schedule can be designed to achieve a better balance between work and non-work by changing the starting and quitting times, the number of hours worked, the frequency and number of rotations, the number of days worked, and the number of weekends off."
10.2307_975819	1978	"Reassessments of the status of comparative and development administration, although frequent and generally concentrating on shortcomings, have diverged as to what is wrong and what ought to be done. The author, reviewing the field after a decade in academic administration, concurs that the mood has changed from exuberance to introspection. Charges of paradigmatic confusion are common, but no consensus has emerged from the suggestions of evaluators who differ on issues such as relevancy and future research priorities. The most urgent need is not the achievement of an elusive consenus but the active pursuit of promising new research suggestions, plus further use of proven constructs such as the bureaucratic model. Meanwhile, the outlook should be one of anticipation rather than disenchantment, with recognition that the loss of autonomy and glamour by the comparative administration ""movement"" is compensated for by the widespread acknowledgment that study and research in public administration can no longer be confined within parochial national boundaries."
10.2307_975837	1983	"Note has been made about the budgetary impact of judicial decisions. This paper looks at the budgetary effect of federal district court decisions across the states in the area of corrections. The study shows that (a) courts have affected state spending on prisons, (b) the levels of per prisoner spending in states that have had court cases are, in general, lower than in states that have not experienced prisoner rights litigation, (c) the level of per prisoner spending has not been affected by judicially mandated prison reform because of the steady increase in the prison population. The implications of the analysis are discussed. These include: (a) bureaucratic behavior, (b) redistributive aspects of judicial decisions, and (c) the erosion of the budget as a tool of popular control."
10.2307_976329	1983	"Of late, the substance and implementation context of federal regulatory policy have been altered. With the development of new social regulation, it is not uncommon for federal agencies to be legally charged with holding other federal agencies accountable to the law. The focus of this study is the Environmental Protection Agency's regulatory experience with the Tennessee Valley Authority as the former sought to apply provisions of the Clean Air Act of 1970 to the operations of the latter. The purpose of the study is twofold. First, it seeks to describe what can happen when one federal agency tries to regulate another. Second, it attempts to assess tentatively the efficacy and implications of intragovernmental regulation. The EPA/TVA experience suggests that federal agencies can be made distinctly vulnerable to public regulation; that as a form of bureaucratic oversight such regulation is a promising supplement to traditional overhead democracy techniques; and that challenges raised by public agencies to implementation may not be as inappropriate, insurmountable, or dysfunctional as commonly assumed."
10.2307_975133	1976	"Very little attention has been given to why individual city managers leave the profession. This article provides some information on this question. In 1966, 92 per cent of all city managers in the Pacific Northwest responded to a questionnaire dealing with job responsibilities, and with career aspirations and satisfactions. A follow-up in 1974 revealed that over one-fourth had left the profession, excluding those who had died or retired. A number of variables were examined, including age, education, city size, job satisfaction, career satisfaction, etc. Most of the ""leavers"" sought jobs that offered greater challenges, more opportunities, or better working conditions. We also found that two-thirds of the managers remaining in the profession in 1974 had expressed high satisfaction with their jobs in 1966, compared with only one-third of those who had left the profession by 1974. The principal negative aspects to those who left were salary and council relationships. Nevertheless, most of those who left city manager positions were found in highly related occupations, and about two-thirds of them were willing to consider the possibility of returning to a city manager job some time in the future."
10.2307_975952	1979	"Textbook descriptions of the role of the mayor in the council-manager form of government invariably describe the mayor's role in a titular and restrictive fashion. These descriptions fail to acknowledge that the mayor may play an aggressive policy-making leadership role. The argument set forth in this paper, based on field interviews conducted with city mayors and managers in Virginia, is that the mayor, for a variety of reasons, usually functions as a strong policy leader. The implications flowing from the exercise of strong mayoral leadership include the emergence of teamwork governance, the merging of policy-making and administration, and the ""democratization"" of the council-manager plan."
10.2307_975743	1981	Prestige and productivity among public administration and public affairs programs are evaluated in two ways. Reputation for quality is derived from a questionnaire sent to all NASPAA representatives. Scholarly productivity is determined by aggregating the number of articles published between 1970 and 1980 in 10 PA/A journals. A comparison of the top 20 from the two lists reveals considerable similarity. No claim is made that the results should be considered final and conclusive. Yet as an area of inquiry matures such efforts to assess systematically the relative excellence of graduate programs should provide useful information for various audiences.
10.2307_3109917	1979	"Coordination among federal grants and coordination of federal grants with state grant programs and with local government's own programs and private endeavors has been greatly enhanced by the flexibility given to recipient governments by the block grant form. Coordination in the recipient local governments has been highly effective and is accomplished by three principal methods: orchestration by jurisdiction leaders, self-linking among functional specialists, and meshing by community-based organizations. Experiences with coordination among grant programs in eight local government jurisdictions in four regions of the country are described. In all of these local governments block grants are being linked with each other and are being meshed in innovative and diverse ways with federal categorical grants, state grants, and the jurisdictions' own funds, both public and private, to finance projects tailored to meet specific community needs. The allocation flexibility given to the local jurisdictions by the block grants has been essential to these integrating processes. Coordination of federal grant programs at the local jurisdiction level is considered a viable and superior alternative to attempts at coordination by the Washington end."
10.2307_975836	1983	"Local governments have been making increasing use of citizen surveys as part of their management process. Even in light of a growing literature about their use and interpretation, significant questions remain about the utility of these data to decision makers. With specific reference to questions about the size and distribution of an hypothetical budget pie, are the preferences expressed by respondents to a general population survey ""real"" or ""true"" preferences or are they merely artifacts of a particular research method? In the context of data taken from two different communities at two different times, an attempt is made to estimate the frequency of the expression of ""sincere"" preferences for additional public spending-preferences which are accompanied by a willingness to pay additional taxes in order to obtain additional public goods or services. It is argued here that approximately two-thirds or more of the demands for additional service expressed on a general population survey constitute ""sincere"" preferences."
10.2307_974584	1976	"The article determines and evaluates some of the underlying assumptions of the concept of citizen participation. It examines the extent to which citizens and planners share congruent opinions as to what the observed and the expected role of citizens is and should be in the planning process. The Metropolitan Seattle Transit Study Citizens' Participation Program was used as a case study. The study reveals certain characteristics of feasible and meaningful strategies for accomplishing successful citizen participation-successful from the view point of the professionals, the policy makers, and the citizens. In the case study, the citizens and the professionals largely felt that the citizen participation program met their expectation, though their expectations differ. The article identifies and discusses some of the limitations of citizen participation in the planning process."
10.2307_975201	1975	"An analysis of recent judicial decisicions concerning the procedural and substantive constitutional rights of public employees indicates that the courts have adopted an idiographic approach to many of the issues involved. This approach is of greatest importance with regard to procedural due process, freedom of speech, association, and thought, and equal protection. It has important implications for public personnel administration and requires modification of some practices associated with political neutrality, the establishment of moral standards for public employees, and the quest for greater efficiency. The idiographic approach also decreases the utility of public personnel administration's policing function in several respects."
10.2307_975681	1978	"In many police departments throughout the country, female police officers are now performing the same duties as their male counterparts. This paper provides a comprehensive review of the literature concerning the changes in the role of female police officers-from their entry into law enforcement as police matrons in 1845 until the present. Beginning with the derisive portrayal of policewomen by the public press in the early 1900's, the evolution of the policewoman's image is traced and the different duties assigned to her are examined. The various studies on attitudes toward policewomen are critically reviewed and evaluated. The pattern emerging is one where anti-policewomen orientations are persisting despite the demonstrated competence of female police officers. Although the general public may gradually be coming to accept policewomen as full-fledged officers, it is policemen as a group who seem most resistant to the new role of women in law enforcement."
10.2307_975337	1977	"The authors propose a set of general tests of equity for local administrators to use in distributing public services. Four service categories are distinguished, and the problems of analyzing equitable service delivery for each category are discussed. A methodology for geographic analysis of service distribution is proposed. Emphasis is placed on the importance of analyzing service distribution equity using measures of combinations of indicators of resources, activities, results, and opinions. Departures from equal treatment need to be justified, in part, by using service measures. Despite the difficulties of measurement, officials in large local governments will have a much sounder basis for decisions about service distribution, if analysis of equity becomes part of operating routines."
10.2307_974867	1977	"The ""faith in technology"" attitude prevalent in the U. S. extends to local governments, where large programs have been instituted to facilitate technology transfer. This article examines the technology transfer of computer applications among and into city and county governments. It compares the benefit claims about application transfer, as expressed in seven key points most often found in literature about computerized information systems, with new data on local government transfer activity and the harsher realities of actual transfer experience. This article neither supports nor discredits claims about transfer of computer applications in local government. Rather, it attempts to fill part of the void in rational discussion about transfer by offering broad perspectives on why more transfers do not occur and, in some instances, why they shouldn't occur."
10.2307_3110201	1980	"This essay discusses the process of government contracting. It suggests that the acquisition of goods and services needed by government is an important aspect of public administration that has not been adequately investigated. The article discusses the fit of contracting to the budgetary process. It provides an analysis of the process indicating that there are a number of points at which significant decisions are made which substantially affect what the government gets for its dollar. The contracting officer's function is an important and complex one. Bureaucratic and elective politics play a major role. In fact, it is argued that the major task of the contracting officials may be to balance political supports and demands in light of government needs and available resources rather than the frequently repeated goal of acquisition of the best goods and services at the lowest possible price. Finally, the essay calls for further research to study the acquisitions process through a conceptual framework which focuses on the relationship between private organizations and the government as opposed to the acquisition of discrete items or systems."
10.2307_975534	1982	"Recently, the adequacy of citizen-based measures developed from surveys of public opinion as indicators of service performance has come under question. This article presents and evaluates the criticisms lodged against these measures and examines their potential uses in the making of urban public policy. The article elaborates the role played by these subjective indicators as well as by more objective measures in the evaluation of service performance within the broader context set by the goals of service delivery. It also discusses the relevance of the two types of indicators for a promising, new approach to the provision of municipal services-coproduction."
10.2307_976124	1982	"This article presents a psychodynamic perspective on the relationship between an administrator and an advisor. The article examines ways in which bureaucratic incentive systems in which administrators work, as well as the advising relationship itself, contribute to an ambivalence toward an advisor. This ambivalence is expressed in a desire simultaneously to find that the advisor is powerful and to render the advisor impotent. The analysis focuses on ways in which the advisor's status as outsider, perceived as that of intruder, contributes to efforts to withhold information from the advisor, to discredit the advisor's competence, to sabotage the advisor's recommendations, and to scapegoat the advisor. All advising relationships contain the potential for such efforts, and effective advising depends on a recognition of and response to this potential."
10.2307_974697	1977	"In the post-World War II period, a transformation of urban processes has occurred which raises questions about the appropriateness of ""territorial"" government. This change has manifested in activities and problems that transcend and defy identity by spatial propin-quity or physical boundedness. As such, a significant mismatch occurs between territorial and political boundaries, raising questions of representation and administrative legitimacy. Those patterns of governance based on the territorial model - both local government and centralized areawide bureaucracy - are ill-equipped to handle the variety of unique decisions and diverse constituencies surrounding most major land use control situations. Instead, the transterritorial complexity of metropolitan settlement raises the possibility of a new perspective which views land use control through an open system of concurrent government. This non-hierarchical system operates through an intergovernmental coordination of interest and knowledge specific agencies."
10.2307_975436	1986	"Without a clear understanding of the ingredients of creativity, defined as original breakthroughs in the solution of mind-boggling problems, high-tech societies are likely to lose their capacity to define problems in the first place, as, instead, they accelerate their capacity to solve well-defined technical procedures. Public administration is peculiarly exposed to this dilemma but could avoid it. Five major factors-intuition, synthesis, imagination, levels of attention, and conflict are considered here. The conclusion is that personality and atmosphere rather than technique are the major determinants. Creativity more than anything else assures survival, both literally and figuratively. Creativity is perhaps the most important concept in public administration."
10.2307_975764	1988	"In light of recent attacks on Wilson's role and even competence in the founding of public administration, this article reexamines his contribution to the field and arrives at four conclusions. First, Wilson's article was read and appreciated by almost no one until the 1930s. Instead, the self-aware study of public administration was already highly developed in Europe by the 1880s, and that literature was used by American founders. Second, Wilson's politics/administration dichotomy was fundamentally different from the European version, although he apparently created it by incorrectly translating his German sources. Third, Wilson's further readings alerted him to his error and the unacceptable implications of his dichotomy, and he abandoned his dichotomy within three years of publishing his article. Finally, Wilson was rediscovered and finally designated as an influential founder in the 1930s to 1940s because the administrative climate changed to make his dichotomy more appropriate than the European version to the American audience."
10.2307_976946	1991	"How can municipalities maximize and sustain citizen participation in solid waste recycling programs? David H. Folz tackled this question through a research project conducted in 1990. Based on survey responses from 264 recycling coordinators, Folz provides empirical evidence about what program strategies have worked best. ""Democratizing"" the planning and design process for programs had a significant impact on citizen participation, as did mandating participation in recycling. But even voluntary programs worked well when combined with other implementation strategies, such as curbside delivery, the use of private contractors, public education programs, and the provision of free bins. Other useful strategies included specific goal setting for recycling programs and composting programs. Two strategies that did not have a significant impact on citizen participation were same day pickup of recyclables and permitting the comingling of recyclable materials."
10.2307_976827	1995	"What is the current status of Management by Objectives (MBO) in municipal government? The conventional wisdom in this area presents mixed signals. On one hand, MBO is seen as a traditional management tool which forms part of the foundation of effective public management, while at the same time it is viewed by others as being out of date, ineffectual, and inconsistent with contemporary management thought and practice. Theodore H. Poister and Gregory Streib surveyed 520 municipal managers to explore the usage of MBO in local government. The findings indicate not only that MBO is widely used in municipal management, but also that there is widespread variation as to how this traditional approach is used."
10.2307_976167	1986	"Models of management in public administration are of three dominant types. One, neutral competence, emphasizes neutrality and objectivity. A second, termed responsive competency here, stresses political responsiveness. A third model, which focuses on managerial competence, relies heavily on private sector practices. This paper utilizes data from the Federal Employee Attitude Survey, Phases I and II, and personal interviews with career federal executives to examine the relevance of these models to contemporary management needs. A public service model is proposed as an alternative conceptualization for the practice of federal management. This model calls for informed management skills for both career and political executives. It also emphasizes managing in the public interest and, therefore, the need for widespread commitment to competent and effective management."
10.2307_975990	1984	"Great uncertainty currently prevails in the matter of off-site emergency response planning around U. S. civilian nuclear power plants. The Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the Federal Emergency Management Agency share in review and approval of off-site emergency plans prepared by state and local governments in the emergency planning zone of nuclear power plants. This study examines why off-site nuclear accident planning has been a low federal priority, why the problem is intergovernmentally complex, and why this sub-policy issue remains controversial. The study uses the ""inclusive authority"" and ""overlapping authority"" models of Deil S. Wright to explain why off-site planning is arduous and vulnerable to possible federal preemptive action."
10.2307_976614	1990	"The administrative presidency has proven quite controversial, especially as it affects relationships between political appointees and career bureaucrats. This essay offers a contingency approach to appointee-careerist relations that (1) provides a middle ground alternative to presently polarized debates concerning these relationships and (2) promotes the normative values associated with a public service model of executive branch relations. The approach is more conditionally cooperative than most bureauphilic prescriptions, yet is distinctly more grounded in notions of mutual responsibility for lawful government than most bureauphobic strategies."
10.2307_977329	1989	"This article examines the ambiguity in the meaning of executive power in both the text of the U. S. Constitution and in subsequent judicial interpretations. This ambiguity has had a profound impact on the constitutional position of the public administration. In the recent independent counsel case, the U. S. Supreme Court offered a restrictive interpretation of the President's constitutional powers to remove subordinate officers. This new interpretation could lead to increased congressional control over administrative agencies."
10.2307_977378	1994	"How will the role of the federal executive change as part of the federal government's efforts to ""reinvent"" itself? Vice President Al Gore, Jr., assesses how that role will change and explains his vision of the role of a federal executive in the future. This article is adapted from remarks made at the first lecture of the Marver H. Bernstein Symposium on Government Reform at Georgetown University in March 1994."
10.2307_3135029	1985	In 1985 the Supreme Court in Garcia v. San Antonio Metropolitan Transit Authority held that the minimum wage and overtime provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act apply to employees of publicly owned transit systems. But Garcia has broader implications for intergovernmental relations. This article initially examines the immediate consequences for state and local governments and then considers the long-term implications for American federalism.
10.2307_976409	1991	"Are women being effectively integrated into the managerial ranks of state government administrations? Rita Mae Kelly, Mary Guy, and colleagues report on the findings of a six-state study that addressed this and related issues. Overall, they find ""little evidence...that more than a minimal level and type of equality have taken place."" Their surveys indicate that men continue to hold disproportionately more elite positions in state administrative systems, but there is progress being made in including women in higher echelon jobs. However, inclusion is accomplished at ""a high personal price"" among those who advance. They also find gender factors to be important in the mentoring process that is so important to the development and advancement of managers. Men tend to have male mentors, and women are as likely to have male mentors as they are to have women mentors. Nevertheless, women who found female mentors gained considerably from that relationship. Based on studies of the federal government, their findings indicate that women are faring better at the state level in regard to advancement opportunities and rewards."
10.2307_976766	1995	"William Stanbury and Fred Thompson try to get beyond the mantra of waste, fraud, and abuse to deal seriously and constructively with the question of government waste. They provide a logical taxonomy of nine types of waste, which they use to examine the question from several directions. One of the insights derived from their examination is that a large proportion of the waste created by government is not included in the budget. Indeed, efforts to reduce budgetary waste often simply cause it to pop up elsewhere. Words, definitions, and concepts matter. Like ideas, they have consequences. A better understanding of the nature and varieties of waste is crucial to improving governmental performance and, ultimately, to achieving the purposes of the American commonwealth: establishing justice, providing for the common defense, and promoting the general welfare-for present and future generations."
10.2307_976831	1995	"Does fuzzy set theory apply to public administration? Or more aptly, when does it not apply to public administration? William A. Treadwell's exploratory article moves us toward an understanding of the ""fuzzy"" world in which we work. A fuzzy set theory orientation can bring together disparate theoretical interpretations and allow them to mutually co-exist as they are each allowed to provide partial explanation of the phenomenon at hand. Treadwell proposes a ""fuzzy acceptance theory"", with which a framework is provided for pulling together different theoretical perspectives that allows each perspective the ability to provide partial explanatory power for the issue at hand."
10.2307_3110037	1985	"This study examines the Hatch Act's relationship to federal employee unions. It finds, contrary to conventional thinking, that evidence suggests that the act is directly applicable to these organizations. Also, the Office of Special Counsel of the Merit Systems Protection Board has recently taken two controversial actions which represent an indirect application of the act to federal unions. Because of uncertainty as to the act's relationship to federal unions, Congress should adopt clarifying legislation. In considering policy alternatives, it should assess the labor relations, administrative, and constitutional implications."
10.2307_976950	1991	"Is there an ""organizing force"" for public administration emerging for the 1990s? George D. Wagenheim and John H. Reurink believe that ""customer-service management"" will provide the organizing and operating strategy for the coming decade, and in this commentary they review the logic and components of that approach. By focusing on the needs of both external and internal customers, the organization develops means and mechanisms that benefit agency personnel as well as the people they serve in the process. As both a ""driver and evaluator"" of agency performance, customer service creates a positive reinforcement cycle for the agency through higher motivation and morale, self improvement, cost reductions, and innovation."
10.2307_3110435	1986	"Analysis of the dramatic hearings on the renomination of Donald J. Devine as director of the U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM) reveals a fundamental flaw in the organization created under the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978. The adverse consequences for the operations of government are serious because some important decisions having government-wide impact made by the heads of OPM during both the Carter and Reagan administrations conflicted with fulfilling the central purpose of the agency-to attract and retain a highly qualified and well motivated work force. It is inevitable that an OPM director serving at the pleasure of the president will be expected to satisfy administration interests which are contrary to the principal reason for which the central personnel agency exists. Changing the organization to provide for bipartisan leadership of the agency is an essential first step to dealing with the crises in civil service-crises in competence, morale, and public confidence."
10.2307_3109939	1985	"James Svara, in the January/February 1985 issue of the Public Administration Review, identified four types of municipal decision making: mission, policy, administration, and management. He broke from traditional public administration models not by condemning the dichotomy of roles for elected and appointed officials, but by noting how they share decision making in each. The first two, however, are more council prerogatives while the latter belong more to appointed managers. This is a report of research which partially tests the Svara model by examining only policy initiatives. It shows both the utility of the model and the need to apply it according to the environmental context in which policy relationships are established. The data show high rates of policy discretion for Michigan municipal managers."
10.2307_976782	1990	"State governments made significant changes in how they managed information resources such as information technologies and information services in the 1980s. This article highlights selected findings from the first national study of state government information resources management (IRM). Legislation and executive initiatives increasingly mandated strong management control and better utility of information resources. New organizational structures, planning processes, and policy formulation activities were developing. The state practices were compared to IRM program components described in the growing IRM literature. While the current focus remained on information technology management, particularly computerized data processing and communications, it was clear that management trends included better management of information itself as a resource."
10.2307_3135022	1985	"In the early 1980s, many local governments and their police departments faced problems of fiscal stress. In coping with their problems, many police departments underwent substantial changes in the way they organized, managed, and deployed their resources. This article describes several of these changes, outlines strategies that were used by police departments for coping with fiscal stress, and discusses the consequences of these strategies. It argues that problems stemming from long-term fiscal stress require innovative solutions that flow from a strategic management approach to departmental decision making. Such a response involves a multiyear time frame and a comprehensive re-examination of the department's problems, mission, and structure. That re-examination may call for a significant reallocation and reconfiguration of resources and work force activity. Changes of this scope suggest that strategic management involves political as well as financial and technical considerations."
10.2307_977256	1996	"How can government do a better job at contracting out? Steven Globerman and Aidan Vining argue that contracting out is justified only when one can expect to lower the sum of production costs and the costs of managing the relationship between government and the contractee (transaction costs). While contracting out can usually reduce production costs, its value depends on whether it can reduce combined transaction costs and production costs. However, most transaction costs can be anticipated before contracting out. The article provides a logical taxonomy that lays out the main issues which determine the feasibility and likely success of contracting out. The key issues in assessing contract design are task complexity, contestability and asset specificity. Potential strategies are available to modify each of these determinants. The authors offer some illustrations from information technology."
10.2307_976604	1991	"What is the status of the human services integration movement? Born in the 1960s, efforts at human services integration (SI) seemed to subside during the late 1970s and early 1980s. Robert Agranoff demonstrates that the SI movement is alive and flourishing in a variety of forms throughout the country. Contemporary SI efforts are more modest and concentrated, but they share a common feature-a framework-which Agranoff presents in this article. Providing many examples of current SI programs, Agranoff ends by stressing the challenge that the movement poses for public administration. Central to that challenge is the need to adopt a new paradigm that replaces the old emphasis on single organizational structures with a ""transorganizational management"" perspective."
10.2307_977207	1996	"What factors influence advancement in meritocratic organizations? The U. S. Army and Air Force are meritocracies in which promotion depends on one's competence in achieving organizational goals. Cadets of the West Point class of 1950 who performed well at the academy were more likely than others to eventually become generals. However, factors that might seem superficial-athletic accomplishment, being friendly, having faces that looked dominating, and heading a traditional family-also affected the attainment of high rank. By representing the military stratification system as a channel model, including forward paths and side shunts, the authors describe the complex effects of these factors, emphasizing the importance for high promotion of appointments to staff and war colleges. Channel modeling improves the quantitative account of rank attainment and, more important, advances the substantive understanding of the promotion process."
10.2307_976498	1994	"What effects do federal legislation, grants, and administrative activities have on state and local level employment and training programs? Edward Jennings focuses on the the effort of states to produce coordinated employment and training programs by raising four questions: How is coordination achieved in the absence of the classic prescription of concentrated authority and clear lines of command and control? How effective are various coordination tools? What factors affect efforts to coordinate programs? Does coordination make a difference? His findings suggest that leadership, acceptance of the legitimacy and worth of multiple programs and organizations, and the degree of effort put into coordination are central to successful coordination."
10.2307_3110347	1995	"Are frameworks developed in the private sector for managing information technology (IT) projects appropriate for public sector efforts? The management of IT projects is an increasingly important issue in the public sector, especially as budgetary constraints become more stringent and failed IT project implementations receive widespread publicity. Although frameworks for project risk assessment and project management exist for the private sector, such frameworks do not explicitly recognize the inherent differences between managing in public and private organizations. In this article, the authors use an in-depth case description of the State of Vermont's Human Resource Management System (HRMS) to illustrate many of the pitfalls of public sector management of IT projects. The project was two years late and more than $1 million over budget, and by early 1995, the system was still experiencing some problems. Unfortunately, the difficulties that surfaced are not unique to this project; nor are they unique to the State of Vermont. The authors propose modifications to private sector project management techniques and identify lessons that can be learned from the HRMS experience."
10.2307_977226	1989	"Pay-for-performance programs have become increasingly popular in recent years. The federal government introduced the Merit Pay System (MPS) for managers under the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978. The failure of MPS led, in 1984, to creation of the Performance Management and Recognition System (PMRS). The effectiveness of PMRS is analyzed using a sample of managers from the U. S. General Services Administration. The results indicated that PMRS had some positive effects on performance in 1986 but that they were substantially reduced in 1987. Thus, PMRS has not demonstrably achieved its ultimate goal--to improve performance in the federal sector. Continuing research is needed about the consequences of merit pay systems for organizational performance."
10.2307_976450	1996	"In this article, the reinventing government movement is compared with the new public administration along six dimensions. A strongly felt need to change bureaucracy informed each movement, although each would change bureaucracy differently. Both movements seek relevance and responsiveness, but in different ways. Issues of rationality, methodology, and epistemology are more important in the new public administration than in the reinventing government movement. Both movements conceptualize organization similarly. The reinventing government movement has a stronger commitment to market approaches for the provision of public services and to mechanisms for individual choice. Reinventing government is popular electoral politics for executives (presidents, governors, mayors) and is more radical than new public administration. The new public administration prompted subtle, incremental shifts toward democratic management practices and social equity. The results of reinventing government, so far, are short-run increases in efficiency purchased at a likely long-range cost in administrative capacity and social equity."
10.2307_976745	1991	"Does the national government need an Office of Federal Management (OFM)? Ronald C. Moe argues that it is time to create such an agency through the reorganization of the Office of Management and Budget. Moe supports his contention with the lessons learned from recent scandals at the U. S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. The proposed OFM would operate under an organizational management strategy reflecting presidential goals and priorities, and would be provided with sufficient institutional support to carry out its government-wide tasks. With a focus on capacity building rather than control, the OFM would avoid reliance on financial techniques or ""placement of political appointees deep within agencies"" to keep administrative officials ""in line."" The primary purpose driving these reforms is expressed in Moe's call for ""competent government"" to replace the image and reality of ""big government"" that currently characterizes assessments of the federal bureaucracy."
10.2307_976546	1992	"Has the quality of doctoral dissertation research in public administration improved over the past decade? Robert Cleary finds that it has in his survey of abstracts of the 165 dissertations listed for the field in the 1990 volume of Dissertation Abstracts. Applying the methods and criteria he and Howard McCurdy used earlier on dissertations completed in 1981 (McCurdy and Cleary, 1984), Cleary finds the most recent group to be ""in total and on the average, superior research projects..."" One area where there was little improvement was in the selection of topics, and he argues that attention should now be given to the subject matter addressed in dissertations."
10.2307_3110059	1996	"Until the 1960s, the Dutch state was characterized and limited by ""pillarization,"" ""corporatism"" and ""consensus-democracy."" Its public administration reflected the juridical perspective that dominated continental European administration during the 19th and 20th centuries. The rise of Dutch administrative science in the 1960s is related to the postwar expansion of its welfare state. The growing welfare state needed scientific support for policy making and planning. Legal expertise alone was no longer sufficient. The one-sided orientation in U.S. literature in the 1970s made way for a growing self-identity and self-confidence. Dutch administrative research today has reached a relatively high level of maturity which might possibly contribute to the development of a new kind of European thinking about public administration."
10.2307_977151	1993	"Must antipatronage reform create more paperwork in the public personnel system? No, answers Christopher Daniel, who argues that contemporary personnel managers have more resources at their disposal to help them avoid paperasserie. Patronage operatives depend upon centralized control systems, so it may be possible to reduce their influence by decentralizing hiring authority within line organizations. Antipatronage reform is one of several reasons governments should invest in assessment technology, replace informal interviews with structured ones, and thoroughly publicize job openings and promotional opportunities. Reformers should integrate antipatronage activities into more general efforts to revive personnel management and to invigorate the public service."
10.2307_976943	1991	"Among contemporary scholars who study the role of bureaucracy in American government, Professor James Q. Wilson stands out for the outstanding contributions he and his students have made to the field. His latest work, Bureaucracy: What Government Agencies Do and Why They Do It, has received widespread acclaim among both academics and practitioners. In this symposium, five of Wilson's students offer their critical insights on their mentor's most recent book. John J. DiIulio, Jr. focuses on Wilson's ""contrarian"" approach and highlights his view of the role of leadership in bureaucracy. Steven Kelman notes the prescriptive message Wilson provides his readers interested in bureaucratic reform, while Christopher H. Foreman, Jr. highlights the central role street-level ""operators"" play in Wilson's perspective. Robert A. Katzmann outlines Wilson's message to the courts about their interaction with bureaucracies. Finally, Pietro S. Nivola shows how Wilson's work takes into account the role of ""external"" factors on the operations of government bureaucracies."
10.2307_3110058	1996	"British public administration has endured radical anti-state reforms since 1979. This essay outlines the three phases of these administrative reforms, their sources of support, underlying rationales, basic institutional elements, as well as their limitations. As a result of profound administrative changes, U.K. academic administrative sciences have undergone a redefinition and relabelling. Yet, there is still not a distinctive British School of public administration, nor a pronounced shift to Continental European thinking. Indeed, the author concludes, ""U.K. academic public administration is still more that of a North American satellite than a core European State."""
10.2307_975784	1986	"Few studies have systematically investigated the personal values and expectations of senior level administrators in the federal service. A comprehensive survey of the Federal Executive Institute Alumni Association in 1982 provides important insights into the enduring values which guide administrative behavior. Also documented, with data from 1983-84-85 FEIAA survey findings, are perceptions of declining working conditions and morale. How administrators handle ethical dilemmas is also discussed."
10.2307_3110398	1992	"Who are the state personnel directors and what are their attitudes regarding key issues facing the public sector work force? Steven W. Hays and Richard C. Kearney sought answers to these questions in a survey of the 50 state personnel directors. Demographically, the directors constitute a ""model work force"" with solid backgrounds in the public personnel field. Faced with problems similar to their federal level counterparts, the attitudes and actions of state directors reflect a concern for social equity issues and an ability to meet challenges by embracing both the traditional and emerging values of public personnel management. The survey results also provide insights into the likes and dislikes of the directors."
10.2307_3135036	1985	"State prison populations have doubled over the past 10 years, resulting in serious overcrowding problems and prompting massive prison construction programs costing billions of dollars. Recently, however, both crime rates and the rate of increase in prison populations have declined, suggesting that prison overcrowding will be a short-term problem. To address these issues, the authors present a series of prison population projections through the year 2020. The projections, which were made for eight states as well as the entire nation, indicate that even with the current decline in the crime rate, the need for prison capacity will not likely diminish in the decades ahead."
10.2307_976227	1986	"The Freedom of Information Act has evolved from competing values, statutes, executive branch guidance, and court cases. Administrators, at the nexus of information flow, are responsible for balancing these demands as they interpret the statute. This article examines the history and management of the FOIA and then outlines the larger, still evolving, field of information policy. Development of a balanced information policy rests on understanding the issues and choices which have to be made and their implications."
10.2307_976376	1996	"What are the challenges posed for public sector decision makers by the Government Performance and Results Act of 1993 (GPRA)? And what can be done to enhance the possibility of effective performance measurement? The GPRA calls for a vigorous implementation of performance measurement across federal agencies by 1999. Measures will be employed for both strategic management (planning) and evaluation of results (scorekeeping). A more formal use of performance measurement will surely bring many benefits. As Robert S. Kravchuk and Ronald W. Schack point out, however, the development of performance measurement systems will introduce new, and perhaps unforeseen, problems. Kravchuk and Schack argue that increasing reliance on formal measurement approaches, at the expense of ""hands-on"" management and evaluation, will place senior officials more in a cybernetic mode of decisionmaking, than a rational-actor mode. Paradoxically, performance measures may misinform as much as they inform, if users are unaware of the subtle limitations of measurement systems. The authors argue that the rigors of general systems theory can contribute to effective compliance with GPRA. To that end, they present ten general design principles for effective performance measurement systems."
10.2307_976671	1994	"What are the challenges facing city management today? What are the consequences of not addressing them immediately? Robert T. Golembiewski and Gerald T. Gabris explore six problem themes in city management including: conceptual issues that increasingly lag realities, attitudes that have growing costs, and skill deficits that increasingly undercut what needs doing. They then pose working answers. The authors present convincing evidence to support the view that success can become failure, and this article (the first of two companion pieces) proposes that this holds true in city management as well. Fortunately, according to the authors, past success also can energize future coping, but only before the fateful corner is turned beyond which success generates net momentum toward its own negation."
10.2307_975601	1988	"Administrative policy making once tended to be a relatively simple process from an internal perspective, often dominated in large measure by program goals and the substantive expertise appropriate for their attainment. To an increasing extent, however, this old system has been displaced by a more complex one as agencies have responded to fundamental changes in their environments. Thus, rule formulation today often requires the accommodation of at least four sets of bureaucratic actors, each with a separate institutional identity and each with distinctive outlooks concerning the criteria that should guide the choice of policy. This has important implications for the study of agency regulation."
10.2307_3110049	1996	"Competitive forces are producing changes in regulatory decision making in once highly regulated domestic industries. Where such changes have occurred, regulatory theory needs to reflect these new dynamics. To support this hypothesis, the author draws upon a major U.S. Department of Transportation airline awards case where regulatory officials had to decide which combination of new and expanded U.S. carrier service to Japan would provide ""the greatest public benefit over time."" The evidence suggests that the department's decision turned on a broader rather than narrower view of competition. That is, greater public benefits were to be achieved by strengthening U.S. carrier competition against foreign carriers thereby providing more competition among U.S. carriers. In making this decision, regulators also had to consider ""civic support"" for specific carrier awards from cities, states, and consumer stakeholders who would benefit from new and expanded service. Thus, the political competition for six awards (three of which were the Tokyo prize) pitted nine U.S. carriers and dozens of cities, states, and airport authorities against one another in one of the most celebrated route award cases in departmental memory. In an earlier period of airline regulation, the author contends that the issues and outcomes would likely have been different. However, a changed competitive arena has altered regulatory decisions. As such, the case seeks to break new ground in viewing regulatory politics."
10.2307_976906	1988	"Former Commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Revenue, Ira Jackson, revitalized tax administration in that state through what he calls the ""stick,"" ""carrot,"" and ""conscience"" approach. Data gathered from a 1987 survey administered to state departments of revenue documents substantial development of tax administration innovations among the states similar to those adopted in Massachusetts. State agencies responsible for income tax administration are greatly expanding their auditing and collections capabilities, developing new services for taxpayers, and attempting to influence citizens' attitudes towards compliance with state tax laws."
10.2307_3135037	1985	"In the past decade, a movement to establish rights and provide services for crime victims has developed. Its origins were in the law enforcement concern about victim dissatisfaction with the justice system and the interest of the women's movement in victims of rape and domestic violence. The movement is manifested in more than 2,000 programs that provide services, such as counseling, notification of court appearances, shelter, and emergency financial help, to all types of victims. As a result of the disparate beginnings of the movement, structures of victim programs vary widely. Despite their organizational differences, however, a consensus exists that a crime inflicts feelings of powerlessness, guilt, and rage on the victim, and that the most effective response helps to restore the victim's sense of control. This can be achieved by practical assistance, counseling, and participation in the criminal justice system."
10.2307_977299	1990	"This article presents results from a case study of hydropower licensing, a program that was transformed during the period 1978-1988. New legislation promoted extensive development of hydropower projects and stimulated reactions by a threatened environmental community. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission altered virtually every significant aspect of its licensing program in response to these external pressures. More than remarkable adaptability, this case demonstrates that regulatory institutions may yield their discretionary powers in order to maintain productivity and responsiveness. While they are closely related in most regulatory situations, productivity and responsiveness are sometimes incompatible. When such a conflict occurs, this research suggests that the agency may sacrifice a degree of productivity to maintain responsiveness. This study also shows that through the creative use of familiar regulatory tools, notably rule making and negotiation, an agency can enlist external agencies and groups in its efforts to be productive and responsive."
10.2307_976449	1996	"A theoretical orientation known as postmodernism has swept through university humanities departments over the past decade. Can postmodernist insights be used to help public administration understand the situations in which it is currently conducted? In this article Charles J. Fox argues the affirmative by applying concepts developed in postmodern thought to the reinventing government movement. Specifically, it is argued that much of reinvention can be understood not as substantive reform but as symbolic politics of a particularly postmodern kind."
10.2307_3110240	1995	"What does it take to be an effective and successful public servant? Norma M. Riccucci analyzes the behaviors, experiences, accomplishments, and political environments of six high-level career servants in the federal government who have made positive contributions to our society in a host of policy domains. Her study not only identifies ingredients of effective performance, but it also calls attention to the ""unsung heroes"" in government service who seldom receive praise for their efforts and contributions to the public good."
10.2307_976673	1994	"What do managers need from researchers, anyway? Frank P. Williams, Marilyn D. McShane, and Dale Sechrest contend that the keys to successful administrative practices for the future will be accountability and the management of performance review. However, structural and philosophical shifts in the role of evaluation research will be necessary to accommodate more effective use of the tremendous amount of data now available to public administrators on a daily basis. Researchers or research units within agencies represent the most effective way for managers to have data appropriately interpreted, yet, past experience has shown that building effective working relationships between research and management may not be easy. The authors explore the problems posed by large databases and the reasons behind manager/researcher conflict, using agencies within the criminal justice system as an example. A solution to the problem of interpreting data is proposed."
10.2307_3110246	1995	"Political appointees constitute the president's front line in the policy wars of state and set the tone and direction of the executive agencies and independent regulatory commissions. Who were the women and men who served at the top of George Bush's administration? How qualified were they? How did they view government service? How well did they relate to career public servants? The author answers these questions with an empirical study of the Senate-confirmed Bush appointees. The author finds that these appointees were well qualified in terms of previous government service (though lacking solid foundation in the federal budget process), committed to government service, satisfied in their job and relations with careerists (though, surprisingly, not held in noticeably higher esteem by them than were Reagan's appointees), and, most of them, enormously stressed by the burdens of their office."
10.2307_976463	1992	"What are the implications of European Community integration for public administrators in the member-states? Theo Toonen, PAR's corresponding editor for European affairs, reports on four major challenges they face. Besides having to contend with the challenge of adopting and implementing numerous Community policies, they must also deal with institutional barriers and the reforms required if they are to fit into the new Community framework. Functional problems and issues related to public management are also emerging as significant challenges. Toonen provides an overview of how public administrators and government officials are attempting to cope with these challenges through coproduction and various institutional and political changes and reforms."
10.2307_976079	1984	"Cobb and Elder's theory of agenda building is used to explain the movement in toxic waste management from a closed system of decision making to a more open one. Based on analyses at six widely dispersed toxic waste sites, the paper demonstrates how the original technologically based decision processes are being tempered by the concerns of groups that now have a significant input into those processes. This movement poses a challenge for public officials to reconcile the tenets of administrative efficiency with the democratic norms of representation and accountability."
10.2307_977208	1996	"Are women and minorities adequately represented in the promotion processes of the U. S. Army? Are their promotion rates competitive with male and Caucasian Army officers'? What happens to female and minority promotion rates as rank increases? To answer these questions, J. Norman Baldwin presents data on more than 123,000 Caucasian, female, male, and minority Army officers considered for promotion to captain, major, lieutenant colonel, and colonel. The data indicate women and minorities are underrepresented in the Army's middle officer ranks, female officers are promoted at lower rates than male officers, and minority officers are promoted at lower rates than majority officers. Except for Native American officers, cumulative promotion rates for minorities also indicate adverse effects beginning at the rank of major and lieutenant colonel. However, noncumulative promotion rates for women and minorities generally do not indicate adverse effects, and male and Caucasian promotion rates decrease over time more than female and minority promotion rates."
10.2307_976425	1994	"How has the situation of the minority public administrator changed over the past two decades? In 1974, PAR published a symposium titled, ""Minorities in Public Administration."" Adam W. Herbert, the symposium's editor, contributed an article that identified the role demands and dilemmas of minority public administrators. Herbert painted a picture of a minority administrator who is confined to ""social service agencies,"" held hostage by several powerful forces beyond his or her control. Has this portrait of minority administrators changed in the last 20 years? How do minority public administrators view themselves in relation to the demands discussed by Herbert? Do they perceive themselves as innocent victims or legitimate participants in statecraft? To answer these questions and more, Sylvester Murray and his colleagues at Cleveland State University surveyed members of the Conference of Minority Public Administrators (a section of the American Society for Public Administration). The authors found that significant changes have occurred since Herbert published his essay. Minorities have made impressive gains in securing upper-level management positions in federal administrative agencies. Minority administrators are also taking a more proactive position in dealing with the forces and demands discussed by Herbert."
10.2307_975580	1986	"Decision support systems are computer information systems which provide information as a basis for nonroutine, semistructured, decision making. The focus of this article is on the extent to which decision support systems have been used, specific applications, and the perceived value of these systems. Based on a survey across several state agencies, the authors found decision support systems to be sporadic in use. Users of decision support systems thought that the primary benefit of these systems is the ability to anticipate problems and respond accordingly. The article provides suggestions for managers in advocating further use of decision support systems."
10.2307_976542	1992	"Is legislative deliberation over agency budget requests focused and calculative? And if so, what factors determine the form and impact of those deliberations? These are the central questions in Karen A. Stanford's study of budget hearings in the Florida state legislature. Focusing on four years of hearings and analyzing more than 12,000 questions asked by legislators during those periods, Professor Stanford finds ""a more sophisticated decision calculus than suggested by incremental theory."" Her findings indicate that there are ""discernible patterns"" in the legislative questions reflecting distinct orientations (control, management, planning and funding) toward agency budgets. She also finds those patterns vary depending on fiscal conditions, agency missions, and type of agency funding sources. Implied in these findings is a view that perceives legislative participation in the budgetary process as more strategic than usually assumed. In addition, the findings indicate several major factors that help shape that participation."
10.2307_977125	1995	"Why has gun control lingered at the margins of the American political agenda without resolution for years? William Vizzard argues that the policy history reveals more about policy process than about our romance with guns. A political environment skewed in favor of individualism, incrementalism, and pluralism has produced a form of stalemate that, in effect, resembles an iron triangle with symbolic conflict. This stalemate shifts attention from crafting functional policy to efforts at controlling language and paradigms. The result is poorly crafted and ineffectual policy, the implementation of which accomplishes little except generating conflict that feeds back into the policy debate."
10.2307_977103	1991	"What is the legacy of Frederick C. Mosher? That question is addressed by two of ""Fritz"" Mosher's students who provide a brief intellectual biography of their mentor whose scholarly contributions span the past fifty years. The authors find three themes evident in Mosher's work: the need for public management research and practice that is both useful and relevant to the unique demands placed on public servants; the role of public service education in ""attracting and preparing the best and the brightest"" for work in the public interest; and the place of the public service in the constantly changing and challenging American constitutional system. Underlying this body of work is Mosher's experience as a practitioner, reliance on the study of history, and willingness to confront the tensions inherent in public service. On the one hand, there are the demands and challenges generated by the ""democratic impulse,"" political responsiveness, and other sources of change. On the other hand is arrayed the need for continuity, certainty, and direction reflected in a growing reliance on executive leadership, professionalism, and expertise. In addressing issues emerging from these tensions, Mosher manifested his ""drive to assist and support those who truly sought to serve."""
10.2307_975483	1984	"Decreased federal energy policy activity provides new freedom and opportunity to design energy programs that are more sensitive to specific state energy conditions. Unfortunately, this opportunity coincides with severe budget pressures and diminished legislative interest in energy. Furthermore, research on state-initiated energy programs indicates that state energy conditions have only modestly influenced past policy behavior. Techniques are advanced that encourage continued state attention to energy issues and to conservation and renewable energy policies more attuned to state conditions. These include maintenance of a state office dedicated to energy, greater energy office reliance on traditional line agencies, increased emphasis on energy programs that yield multiple state benefits, development and communication of information on relative state energy conditions, utilizing the lessons offered by past energy policy successes and failures, and maintenance of multi-state data collection and advisory programs."
10.2307_976454	1996	"The House Committee on Government Reform and Oversight's report, Making Government Work, reviews reinvention and federal administration in a broad context. Although the majority and the minority members of the committee express very different views, they agree that performance management is central to the future of federal administration."
10.2307_976726	1994	"What effect can growth management legislation have on the cost of planning and administration? K. T. Liou and Todd J. Dicker examine the impact of the Florida Omnibus Growth Management Act (GMA) of 1985 on local governments in southern Florida. The GMA imposed extensive requirements on local governments in Florida with regard to comprehensive planning. Using the calculated per capita comprehensive planning expenditures as a measure, the analysis reveals that cities are expending considerably more funds in order to comply with the new comprehensive planning requirements. Furthermore, small cities experienced a greater fiscal impact of the GMA than large cities did. Based on the findings, the authors discuss important implications of the GMA for growth management policy makers and researchers."
10.2307_976842	1989	"Historically in the field of land use, a gulf separated planning and regulation. Land use was regulated through zoning and subdivision ordinances which had little relation to a city's overall land-use plan. This article briefly explores the consequences and administrative procedures adopted to close this gap by implementing a zoning ""consistency"" program in the City of Los Angeles. Los Angeles is the largest city in the nation subjected to such a state-mandated program, which is also required in 17 other states. The article reviews the background of the adoption of a consistency program in Los Angeles, its consequences in terms of two outcomes--time for implementation and population in the future--and some of the major administrative problems encountered and solutions adopted. A final section presents some general observations on these developments."
10.2307_975581	1986	"Organizational decisions regarding computer technology and information policy can be seen as the outcome of either ""iron triangles"" or ""issue networks."" These constructs, borrowed from the federal policy-making literature, are easily interpreted in the context of automated data processing. Iron triangles are the traditional trinity of users, managers, and designers. Issue networks are looser and broader coalitions of many computer-literature participants. At NASA's Johnson Space Center (JSC) issue networks provide the driving force in determining the way systems are designed and technologies chosen. The major information technology issues facing JSC are the building of stronger communications networks, the need for greater commonality of systems and languages, improved planning, and prototyping as a system development method. Around these issues, broad networks of professionals, both inside and outside JSC, have coalesced to determine information policy and management within the organization."
10.2307_3135027	1985	"Decisions of the Supreme Court constantly reshape the contours of federalism and affect the powers and responsibilities of the states. This article examines selected Supreme Court decisions in four areas in which considerations of federalism may arise: imposing national standards, reviewing state criminal decisions, reconciling state and federal law, and limiting national power. Then it describes the development in the last three years of an effort by state attorneys general to enhance the quality of Supreme Court advocacy by state governments. Finally, the article suggests some lessons the states can learn from the court's decisions and steps they can take to improve the effective representation of their interests in the federalist system."
10.2307_977110	1991	"What has been the focus of local government research published in PAR? Analyzing 249 PAR articles relevant to local government concerns published between 1979 and 1989, Douglas Watson and Robert Montjoy find that most highlighted managerial (59 percent), intergovernmental (20 percent), or legal/institutional (13 percent) issues-a clear emphasis on the ""nuts and bolts"" of government administration. Least attention was given to social (6 percent) or infrastructure/economic development (2.5 percent) issues, despite the fact that these have been high on the local government agenda during the decade under study."
10.2307_3110032	1985	"Since 1939, the American Society for Public Administration (ASPA) has played a major role in the development of American public administration. It has contributed significantly to important movements within the field, and it has served as a locus for professional leadership. This article sketches the Society's history and evaluates impacts of principal organizational changes. It also explores several critical issues which now face ASPA: professionalism, basic organizational goals and objectives, occupational diversification, and maintenance of organizational viability."
10.2307_975777	1986	"Ordinarily federal management reorganization proposals originate in the White House or in OMB. But lacking any proposal from the President which responds to increased concerns expressed by others for effective managerial leadership from the presidency, Senator William V. Roth, Jr., Chairman of the U. S. Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs, introduced the Federal Management Reorganization and Cost Control Act of 1986 (S. 2230). This bill took the ""M"" out of OMB, creating a separate presidential Office of Federal Management to implement specific reforms in cash control, credit management, debt collection, information resources management, and other management functions. Moving S. 2230-or any bill-is likened by the authors to ""pushing a string."" Nonetheless, its introduction and subsequent committee action have begun debate on the concept of a stronger presidential management arm to provide sustained institutional capacity for leadership."
10.2307_976540	1992	"Are federal agencies prepared to meet the ""management challenge"" facing America's public sector organizations? Comptroller General Charles Bowsher provides an overview of the role the U. S. General Accounting Office (GAO) plays in meeting the challenge as a model for such efforts. With its focus on human resources, customer service, and high quality productivity, the GAO experience has demonstrated that public sector agencies can live up to high standards in the changing environments they face now and in the future."
10.2307_975783	1986	"This paper reviews a study on how to reduce the paper and costs associated with the implementation of the Federal Managers' Financial Integrity Act of 1982. The Act deals with the federal government's internal control process and has been adopted by several states and some local governments. The Act requires an evaluation of internal controls and corrective action for identified weaknesses. The paper begins with a discussion of management control, proceeds to review key aspects of the Act and the subsequent OMB Guidelines and GAO Standards, and discusses the results of the study of the implementation process. Findings include these: (1) in excess of 1.6 million pages of paper were generated in 1984, (2) approximately 5,800 staff years were required for the implementation, and (3) the cost per material weakness reported to the President and Congress found by Act procedures approximated $1 million. Recommendations include: (1) making the process more meaningful to managers by replacing vulnerability assessments with a management planning process and increasing the use of Alternative Internal Control Reviews, (2) concentrating audits on results achieved, not process, and (3) improving overall direction and coordination."
10.2307_976863	1990	"The fiftieth anniversary of ASPA offers an appropriate opportunity to reflect upon the complicated dilemmas of integrating public administration into the American constitutional system. Recent distinguished authors such as John Rohr, Don Price, Vincent Ostrom, and others in the field have advanced new but decidedly different conceptual understandings about the place of administration within the constitutional design. So far, no consensus exists among modern scholars. This article wrestles with the dilemma of public administration's ""fit"" within the U. S. Constitution and argues for a broader view of the problem based upon the ideas, institutions, events and myths that forged the American community two centuries ago. A unique confluence of eighteenth century republican ideas, tudor institutions, a crisis of events, and classical Judeo-Christian myths gave birth to ""the first new nation without a state."" A preference for ""statelessness"" hampered the development of effective administrative institutions in 1789, with serious consequences for governing America today as well as in the next century."
10.2307_976154	1985	"State and local governments are increasingly engaged in efforts to create jobs and stimulate economic activity. While these economic development policies have a momentum of their own, many depend on federal tax, spending, and regulatory policies. State and local officials view some past and potential future federal policies as threats to their development efforts. In turn, federal officials view some state and local economic development activities as counterproductive. Some oppose issuance of tax-exempt bonds and other efforts which they think threaten the internal United States free market. Debates over federal tax reform and the federal deficit provide considerable room for continuing federal/state/local conflicts. In the long run, incentives for cooperation are stronger than those for conflict, and cooperative forces should prevail. State and local officials need federal cooperation to pursue many development objectives. Particularly important are federal research activities that can be linked to state and local efforts to expand technology transfer capabilities of state and local governments."
10.2307_976746	1991	"Do public organizations deteriorate as they age? ""Organizational life cycle"" theorists believe they do. In this article Howard E. McCurdy uses the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) as a test case to explore that perspective. Focusing on Anthony Downs' classic ""life cycle"" theory, McCurdy uses archival material and the results of a 1988 survey for this study. In many respects, NASA followed the pattern of organizational deterioration and bureaucratization predicted by Downs. Nevertheless, there are indications that other factors (e. g., changes in the federal government as a whole) may have been as influential as the agency aging process in bringing about the agency's decline during the post-Apollo era. The fact that NASA workers remain devoted to change and somewhat optimistic about the agency's future provides signs of hope for renewal. McCurdy concludes with suggestions for dealing with agency decline drawn from the NASA study."
10.2307_977150	1993	"How has the staffing function in government changed since the far reaching Rutan decision in 1990? David Hamilton describes the patronage system used by the state of Illinois and analyzes the changes in the staffing function by the state in response to the court decision. He concludes that the state was more concerned with ensuring compliance than with promoting an improved staffing function. The result has been to replace a centralized patronage system with a centralized bureaucratic system. Finally, Hamilton draws lessons from Illinois' response which may be useful to governments concerned with elimination of patronage. He feels that the Rutan case can result in an improved staffing function if the proper philosophy and procedures are followed."
10.2307_977223	1989	"This essay addresses the issue of professionalism as it has evolved within the field of public administration. By evaluating the cases for and against a profession of public administration, as well as the role of the American Society for Public Administration, it seeks to focus attention on a series of questions regarding professionalism that is relevant to both practitioners and academicians."
10.2307_975589	1987	"The role of different policy actors, including elected and appointed officials and professional administrators, in setting, administering, and implementing policies and programs has been the subject of much investigation. Most recently, an article by James Svara has developed the concept of the continuum of policy and administrative decisions and moved away from the notion of a sharp separation between the two. This article compares the involvement of state level boards using the continuum developed by Svara. Participation in four areas of policy-administrative involvement is empirically and systematically examined for the 68 boards in Virginia with agencywide purviews. Findings indicate that boards are more active in mission and policy areas than in administration and management. However, boards with higher levels of statutory authority are significantly more involved in all four areas."
10.2307_976250	1988	"Since abandoning the PACE examination in 1982, the federal government has relied on a decentralized, noncompetitive hiring method and on new specialized examinations for entry-level professional hiring. Most agencies using these two methods are satisfied, and minority hiring has increased, but oversight of agency hiring has been so limited that it is hard to tell whether merit principles are being violated. Both methods reflect a turning away from selection based on long-term career potential to a narrower focus on specific job skills, as well as a continuation of the cycles of decentralization and centralization that have characterized public personnel administration."
10.2307_977380	1994	"How widespread is bureaucratic entrepreneurship? The analysis of bureaucratic entrepreneurship has relied on case studies of a few outstanding individuals, whose emergence is not easily explained except by chance. In contrast, Paul Teske and Mark Schneider argue that bureaucratic entrepreneurship in local government is more widespread than implied by these case studies and that it can be systematically understood in terms of the incentives entrepreneurs face. More specifically, we argue that entrepreneurial city managers, the highest level bureaucrats in local communities, emerge when local citizens demand or local conditions require change and when local politicians do not provide innovative policies to meet these demands. Teske and Schneider test this hypothesis using multinomial logit analysis of data from nearly 1,000 communities to explain why city managers in some communities act as entrepreneurs and others do not."
10.2307_977146	1993	"How effective are the new behavioral-based welfare reforms? Marcus E. Ethridge and Stephen L. Percy assess the state of Wisconsin's experience with ""Learnfare,"" a controversial policy enacted in 1987 that ties AFDC payments to school attendance of children in recipient families. Learnfare has been plagued by implementation problems and its underlying logic has been brought into question. The authors argue that ""regulated redistribution"" programs such as Learnfare and Workfare demonstrate the extremely complex relationship between policy theory and the design of administrative procedures."
10.2307_977184	1995	"Through the use of four comparative case studies, Barbara Bigelow and Melissa Middleton explore the range of factors that influence how community health centers respond to pressures from funders to make substantial cuts to center budgets. Data from these cases suggest that the inter-relationship between internal constellations of power and certain elements in the centers' environment shaped four different responses to institutional pressures. The cases demonstrate that responses to institutional pressures are more complex than the complete compliance often expected by funding sources."
10.2307_976525	1994	"How has the Clinton administration built upon lessons from past federal and state urban policy initiatives to fashion its Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities Act? Does a blending of historical themes constitute reinventing government? Marilyn Marks Rubin answers these questions by looking back at two predominant themes of the past 30 years that constitute seemingly unrelated approaches to providing assistance to distressed areas: the Enterprise Zone theme of the Reagan-Bush years and the Model Cities theme of Lyndon B. Johnson's Great Society. She indicates how lessons from earlier iterations of Federal Enterprise Zone proposals, from state experiences, and from the Model Cities program have informed the Clinton Administration."
10.2307_977183	1995	"What do Western scholars and administrators need to know about China to understand Chinese civil service reform? During the last 15 years of reform, the Chinese government has studied and incorporated many Western ideas. Nearly all their reforms are labeled, ""reform, with Chinese characteristics."" Steven Aufrecht and Li Siu Bun identify those Chinese characteristics most necessary to understand Chinese civil service reform. The authors use Suzanne Ogden's model of three basic competing Chinese values-traditional Chinese culture, socialism, and development-as a framework to examine Chinese characteristics. Under traditional Chinese values, they examine Confucianism, civil service exams, and guanxi. Under socialism, they examine the Communist Party, cadres, work units, and equity. Under development they discuss China's size, poverty, and educational level. The authors discuss how each of these factors is likely to affect the implementation of civil service reform. They conclude that the fate of reform will shift as China's leaders' priorities vacillate among these three basic values."
10.2307_977344	1989	"The conditions that produced Israel's strong state and the implications of that state are not likely to be replicated elsewhere, exactly. However, Israel's case offers some general lessons that ought to be considered by advocates of a strong bureaucratic state, as suggested by the New Public Administration of the 1968 Minnowbrook Conference. These include: poor management of public enterprises and social services; high inflation; politicization of public sector employment; a plethora of centrally-defined rules, many of which are evaded in the interests of flexible administration; lack of moderation in policy demands; and perpetuation of the state's dominance of the economy as it becomes the first resort of groups in distress."
10.2307_3110436	1986	"The adequacy and quality of public administration research has historically generated significant controversy. This study reviews the research methodologies of Public Administration Review articles from 1975-1984. It concludes that recent public administration research: (1) has been predominately applied; (2) has not been cumulative; and (3) has lacked adequate institutional support. Recommendations are offered to improve research methodology in public administration by focusing intensively on core issues, institutionalizing research, and introducing specific methodological improvements."
10.2307_976810	1992	"What is the proper role of public administration in the American constitutional system? Brian J. Cook seeks an answer in the congressional debates surrounding the establishment of the first federal executive departments. Two views emerged during those debates: an ""instrumental"" perspective viewing public administration as a servant of the major political branches (the president and Congress), and a ""constitutive"" view that would give public administrators constitutional responsibilities and protection from political officials. While the instrumental perspective ultimately prevailed, those supporting the constitutive position helped shape the outcome as well as the ongoing debate over the constitutional status of the federal bureaucracy."
10.2307_977127	1995	"What is the legal status of sexual harassment policy? A coordinated policy against sexual harassment, a primary concern of employment discrimination in the 1990s, is emerging as a result of judicial decisions and executive-branch actions. This has included definitions of what constitutes quid-pro-quo and hostile-environment harassment, as well as a policy that encompasses gender harassment and seemingly the standard of the reasonable woman. Both public and private employers can be held responsible for acts of their supervisors, co-workers, and even nonemployees. The greater protections afforded public employees perhaps place a more significant responsibility on public sector employers. Several legal questions remain unanswered, and pending before Congress is legislation that would clarify the definition of harassment and impose additional requirements on employers."
10.2307_976631	1991	"What should be the focus of American public administration education? According to Curtis Ventriss, the answer to that question is shaped by the way we approach a variety of issues: the relationship between scholars and practitioners; the appropriate role of public administrators in dealing with social issues; the need for a common intellectual culture among public administration scholars; the insularity of American public administration; and the lack of an integrated approach for the analytic, managerial, and policy-knowledge perspectives that are central to the public administration curricula. In offering ideas to address these issues, Ventriss reminds us that the debates surrounding each have implications beyond the classroom. They help shape the identity of the field, and therefore its future."
10.2307_976844	1989	"While county governments have emerged as key service delivery agents in metropolitan regions, academic work on counties is more limited now than 20 years ago. In this article, trends in county government expenditures and functional responsibility are analyzed between 1972 and 1982 in a set of 162 county governments in 50 metropolitan regions. Counties are engaged in a greater range of functions and spend more on redistributive service than the suburban municipalities to which they are compared. However, for the developmental services which create and maintain the urban infrastructure, counties do less than municipalities, but the gap between the two levels of government is narrowing. Furthermore, counties with elected chief executives spend more and do more than county governments with other forms of government."
10.2307_3135016	1985	"This article investigates the charge by administrators that federal courts are continuing a trend toward greater intervention in administrative matters, thereby undermining necessary administrative discretion. It argues, however, that federal courts, led by the Supreme Court, have over the past several years begun to recognize the need for greater administrative flexibility and to demonstrate a sensitivity to the problems brought by complex litigation that face administrators."
10.2307_975901	1987	"The Rogers Commission investigation of the space shuttle Challenger accident was too narrow in its focus; an institutional analysis is needed to supplement the concentration on technical and managerial causes of the tragedy. Using an institutional perspective, we contend that the accident was, in part, a manifestation of NASA's efforts to manage the diverse expectations it faces in the American political system. Four types of accountability (legal, political, bureaucratic, and professional) are commonly used by public agencies to manage expectations of them. Yet, the presence of multiple accountability systems is not without costs. This case study shows that many of NASA's technical and managerial problems resulted from efforts to respond to legitimate institutional demands. Specifically, we contend that the pursuit of political and bureaucratic accountability distracted NASA from its strength: professional standards and mechanisms of accountability. Furthermore, agency reforms now being implemented and considered compound trends away from the professional accountability approaches used by NASA during the 1960s. Such reforms are just as likely to exacerbate the dilemmas facing NASA as they are to improve the agency's performance."
10.2307_975441	1986	"Universities and public officials have sought for many years to establish closer relationships. This study surveys directors of organized university programs designed to assist public officials and two groups of practitioners-state government officials and local government managers. The study examines the extent to which these practitioner groups use these university services and their judgment of the quality as compared with services from private sector consultants. The study also examines how closely the priorities of the university directors match those of the practitioners on program areas and the methods used to deliver university products. The study compares whether the perceptions of the directors more closely match those of the state or the local government group. Finally, the study analyzes the impact of the ways in which university programs are organized on the congruence of the priorities of university directors and the practitioner groups."
10.2307_975582	1986	A questionnaire survey of 106 masters programs in public affairs/administration shows that only 15 percent of these programs require an MIS or management computer applications course. Great variety also exists in the computing environments of masters programs. Separate schools and units of public affairs/administration are to a significant degree conducting more computer training than are programs within political science departments. Attitudinal data collected reveal that many public administration faculty do not believe information systems course work should be required of masters students. The study data provide little support for the potential implementation of the recent recommendations of the NASPAA Committee on Computers in Public Management Education.
10.2307_975487	1984	"Prior studies of the status of minorities and women as employees of state and local government have come to some very discouraging conclusions about the progress, or lack thereof, these jurisdictions are making toward achieving a more broadly representative public service. This study employs a criterion that has not previously been used to assess the performance of state and local governments as employers of minorities and women: the performance of private sector firms as employers of minorities and women. Analysis reveals that, compared with the private sector, state and local governments have compiled a relatively impressive record as equal employment opportunity/affirmative action employers."
10.2307_976601	1991	"What do Americans think about local service delivery? In this meta-analysis of 261 citizen surveys administered in 40 states over the past decade, Thomas Miller and Michelle Miller (no relation) provide us with a picture of overall assessments of several localized public services. Covering more than 200,000 Americans, these evaluative surveys indicate generally favorable assessments (""good"" ratings) for local government activities. Among the various services evaluated, fire, library, and trash hauling tended to receive the highest ratings, while transit services, animal control, street repair, and planning/zoning received the lowest ratings. Attempting to explain differences in evaluations of services among localities, Miller and Miller find that proximity to a metropolitan job center, community wealth, and education might be key factors in several areas. Their analysis was not able, however, to capture the impact of ""better management techniques."" Nevertheless, their findings can prove useful in providing city and county practitioners some comparative benchmarks for assessing service delivery in their jurisdictions."
10.2307_976343	1993	"Can public administrators ever fully appreciate the ethos of community-based work? Herbert Rubin uses a study of community-based development organizations (CBDOs) in an effort to describe how the directors of CBDOs perceive their work. Despite many successes in partnering with the public sector, Rubin postulates that many administrators still misunderstand the mission of CBDOs to not only provide services but to foster broader change. By examining such elements as CBDO's unique criteria for success, Rubin attempts to encourage those in the public sector to understand better and support an alternative approach to the renewal of poor neighborhoods."
10.2307_976251	1988	Herbert Kaufman's thesis that organizations expire when their resources diminish and that they are unable to adapt is applied to the federal health planning program. Kaufman's explanations of the circumstances under which agencies are subject to reductions and even demise are found to have applied to the 1986 termination of health planning. Changes in the issue network and policy relevant environment precipitated the death of this program.
10.2307_3110148	1985	"Information (organized data, the raw material for specialized knowledge and generalist wisdom) is now our most important, and pervasive, resource. Information workers are now more than half the U.S. labor force. But this newly dominant resource is quite unlike the tangible things we have heretofore thought of as valuable resources. The differences help explain why we get into so much trouble trying to use for the management of information concepts that worked all right in understanding the management of things-concepts such as control, secrecy, ownership, monopoly, and geopolitics. Because the old pyramids of influence and control were based on just these ideas, they are now crumbling. Their weakening is not always obvious, just as a wooden structure may look solid when you can't see what termites have done to its insides. Whether the ""crumble effect"" will result in a fairer shake for the world's disadvantaged majority is not yet clear."
10.2307_976750	1991	"What is the status of the international civil service? Under ideal circumstances, those working for the United Nations bureaucracy would be politically neutral, recruited on the basis of merit, and subject to uniform standards regarding conditions of employment. But, as Robert S. Jordan points out in this commentary, the reality is quite different. The international civil service, like its national counterparts, is subject to the political conditions of its environment."
10.2307_975360	1985	The establishment by the Supreme Court of the United States of individual federal employees liability for the violation of citizens' constitutional rights has raised concerns about impacts of the resultant litigation. Interpretation of the doctrine of constitutional torts constitutes a search for balance and effectiveness. The Supreme Court has recently enunciated its concerns for the needs of good government and has indicated a willingness to recognize appropriate administrative procedures as playing a role in vindicating citizens' rights.
10.2307_975779	1986	"Bureaucratic politics-defined here as efforts to influence the policies or behavior of other organizations -represent a small but significant proportion of the activities of managers. This study reviews more than 119 such efforts among 1,800 management events which took place in nine southern African countries in August 1984. Unlike the large-scale case studies of bureaucratic politics which provide much of the information available on the subject to American students of organization theory, these mini-cases permit the analyst to identify ""common"" or ""ordinary"" issues of bureaucratic politics and to study and compare the effectiveness of tactics followed by the players."
10.2307_976478	1992	"Did the 1990 Augustine Committee Report on the future of the space program deal effectively with the problems facing NASA? Although generally favorable in their assessment of the Committee's work, the authors in this symposium provide critiques of the Augustine Report from a variety of public administration perspectives. Jay Shafritz considers how the Committee approached issues dealing with the civilian space program's human resource needs Howard McCurdy provides critical insight into the ""organizational culture"" approach used by the Committee, while Arthur Levine (the symposium editor) focuses on how the Committee handled issues related to the organizational structure of NASA and the space program. Henry Lambright draws attention to the need for greater presidential leadership, another issue not effectively addressed in the Augustine Report. Finally, John Logsdon offers comments regarding the committee's lack of sufficient attention to the international dimensions of the civilian space program."
10.2307_976411	1991	"How has the world of the forest ranger and public administration changed over the past three decades? Using Herbert Kaufman's classic study, The Forest Ranger, as a base point for their discussion, Tipple and Wellman focus on contextual changes that have transformed the U. S. Forest Service and the world of the ranger. The relatively closed system of the 1950s has been opened through environmental legislation and increased public involvement. Earlier emphasis on efficiency and economy is now offset by a stress on representativeness and responsiveness. The authors see parallel developments in the public administration field in general, and they discuss the implications of these changes for practitioners, educators, and scholars."
10.2307_977292	1990	"This article compares key features of performance auditing and evaluation research. Although these two traditions appear to be concerned with the same phenomena, important theoretical and philosophical differences distinguish them. Unless those who sponsor program evaluations are aware of differences among the various types of program evaluation practitioners and clearly specify what program evaluations should accomplish, a poor fit is found between program evaluation products and the information needs of public policy decision makers."
10.2307_977383	1994	"Does education matter? What can education offer the public administrator that position cannot? Jae-Won Yoo and Deil S. Wright examine empirically the extent to which educational specialization and formal administrative position explain variation in the intergovernmental perspectives of one cohort of state-level actors-the heads of state agencies receiving federal aid. They compare administrative staff generalists and those with public administration (PA) degrees with line-agency heads and those without PA degrees and discover significantly higher perceived national influence (PNI) scores in the latter. Career and agency variables did not contribute to understanding PNI variations but tenure did, with Pope's proposition (education) operative among short-tenure agency heads and Miles' Law (position) affecting administrators with longer tenure. Although the findings confirm the importance of differing policy contexts in the 1970s and 1980s, the current and future configuration of intergovernmental influence patterns are by no means clear."
10.2307_976729	1994	"Why do products purchased at airports cost more than those sold nearby? Why should readers of this journal care? This price disparity exists despite the facts that the Airport Administration (AA) is supposed to prohibit it and that competition among multiple sellers of the same product (at larger airports) should bring prices down. Laura I. Langbein and Len Wilson examine the institutional design of airport administration to explain this puzzle. In this organizational investigation, supported by evidence from a survey of airport concessions, the authors determine that both the AA and suppliers have an incentive to maintain a non-competitive game, even when there are multiple suppliers. In this game, substitutes are distant, demand is inelastic, and keeping prices above competitive levels raises profits for the concession and revenues for the AA."
10.2307_976151	1985	"Despite the influx of mid-career students into MPA programs, there has been little systematic attention paid to their impact on the educational experience of pre-service students. The conventional, albeit untested, wisdom suggests that the experience mid-careerists bring from the ""real world"" to MPA programs is beneficial to the pre-service student, striking a balance against the more theoretical public management perspectives offered by academics. This study seeks to refine our largely impressionistic understanding of the mid-careerist impact from the perspective of pre-service students. Queried are pre-service perceptions of the classroom, extra-class, and professional socialization contributions of mid-career students. The findings indicated that mid-careerist contributions tended to be less positive, and more uneven, than typically assumed. While reinforcing and heightening the value of the literature and providing a valued view of public employment, mid-careerists were perceived by significant numbers of pre-service students as having a chilling effect on the classroom participation of some students. It also appears that mid-careerists had a less significant effect on pre-service career socialization than is typically assumed."
10.2307_976828	1995	"How do cities implement Total Quality Management (TQM)? In which areas is TQM most common? Evan M. Berman and Jonathan P. West report the findings of a national survey of city managers and chief administrative officers in all cities over 25,000. They find that local governments use a broad range of strategies, and that city managers play an important role. The data indicate that currently 11 percent of cities have a ""substantial"" commitment to TQM. TQM efforts are most common in police, parks and recreation, streets, and personnel services. While modest positive results are reported for some cities, it is too soon to draw definite conclusions about the outcomes of municipal TQM initiatives."
10.2307_3110126	1993	"How can local governments further identify underutilized revenue sources? Authors Hy, Boland, Hopper, and Sims demonstrate a technique called ""revenue capacity/effort analysis"" in application to counties in Arkansas. The analysis examines property taxes and ""combined lesser discretionary revenues,"" which include a variety of fees and other charges. It indicates that Arkansas counties (and the state as a whole) generally underutilize tax capacity. A variety of factors limits greater effort to raise additional revenues. The authors discuss how this model can be useful in shaping intergovernmental transfers."
10.2307_975605	1988	"This article reconceptualizes the way abandonments of the council-manager form of local government have come to be portrayed. As in most contemporary theories of politics, abandonments have been depicted as reflections of social dimensions of politics, particularly those associated with large cities in a popular political development model. This research shows, however, that size is now a better indicator of nonabandonments of the council-manager plan. An institutionalist perspective is offered as a more accurate explanation of abandonments. The community leadership gap that sometimes exists in the traditional council-manager plan and which city managers may fill at considerable institutional peril is more often encountered in smaller cities than in large ones. Changes in the council-manager form of government, most particularly adoption of direct election of the mayor, have been made most conspicuously in larger cities, reducing pressures for abandonments."
10.2307_976978	1990	"This article examines the nature of empirical research in six public administration-related journals by focusing on the purpose of published research, as well as the research designs and statistical techniques that are employed. Consistent with previous studies, it is reported that public administration journals disseminate academically-oriented research that largely is underfunded, conceptual, and nonempirical and engages in little theory testing. Furthermore, what little empirical research that is published varies with respect to empirical rigor. This study suggests that a cumulative knowledge base is not being developed by public administration scholars, at least not based on social scientific principles."
10.2307_977143	1993	"What are the alternatives to the rule-bound means traditionally applied to the governance of public agencies? Using the case of the Department of Defense, Fred Thompson highlights four basic management control systems. Two of the systems (outlay budgets and fixed-price contracts) reflect a desire to impose ""before-the-fact"" controls, while the other two (responsibility budgets and flexible-price contracts) stress ""after-the-fact"" controls. Thompson shows that decisions regarding the choice of an appropriate control system depend on a number of factors. He notes the costliness of a mismatch between controls and agency tasks, and argues that greater attention be paid to alternative mechanisms for agency governance."
10.2307_976372	1996	"What have been the long-term impacts of the 1974 Congressional Budget and Impoundment Act? These 20-plus years have seen fundamental changes to the congressional budget process. Many of these changes have had profound-and unanticipated-changes for policy making. The author reviews these changes and discusses their implications. He finds three main developments that have not received adequate scrutiny. First, the reconciliation process, almost an afterthought in 1974, has in many ways become the most important part of the process because of its ability to centralize decision making and force committees to take action. Second, while the original Budget Act was neutral as to budget outcomes, subsequent changes, including Gramm-Rudman-Hollings in 1985 and the Budget Enforcement Act in 1990, have attempted to use the process to drive policy outcomes. Third, the expanded importance of budget enforcement has led to a great potential for distortions as policies are considered. These unanticipated changes are important to consider if and when the congressional budget process is revised again. In particular, history shows us that the process is better at informing budget choices than prescribing them."
10.2307_976392	1989	"Frederick Mosher's seminal work on the ""professional state"" has spawned a rich and provocative literature. Still, there is a paucity of research that empirically assesses the relative impact of participation in professional activities and networks on the actual behavior of individuals working within bureaucracies. Using logit analysis, a model is constructed and tested which seeks to account for foresters' decisions to change their general approach to forest management. In the process, this exploratory study assesses the overall predictive power, relative importance, and independent contribution to this decision of four sets of variables: bureaucratic objectives, professional networking, forester responsibilities, and management situations. This analysis implies that professional networks and bureaucratic imperatives may interact in such a way that the administrative state navigates both the Scylla of bureaucratic rigidity and the Charybdis of professional dominance when it comes to ""single-loop"" learning. Prospects, however, for ""double-loop"" learning appear less promising."
10.2307_976804	1992	"What factors help shape the level of job satisfaction among city managers? Which influence their perceptions of community problems? These are questions raised by several students of city management, and the authors address them by examining 1990 survey data gathered by the International City/County Management Association. Victor S. DeSantis, James J. Glass, and Charldeen Newell focus on the impact of managerial values, job characteristics, and city size in this analysis. The working conditions of city managers-especially supportive relationships with city council members - were positively correlated with a sense of job satisfaction among the surveyed managers. Their view of community problems, in contrast, was more closely related to city size. In neither case did managerial values seem to play a significant role."
10.2307_976246	1988	"The ""inner logic"" of the Scientific Revolution is now in serious question, and a new kind of Reformation is seemingly at hand. Three hundred years after Newton, a prospect is emerging of a creative combination of human limits and opportunities. Rather than giving needed, sustained attention to vital global issues, however, American politics and public administration are mired in self indulgence and no little corruption. Theses of a New Reformation urgently require the attention of public administrators. What science leads to is a primary business of public administration, but it is time to put behind us the idea that the politics and administration of human endeavors are some kind of science."
10.2307_976809	1992	"Can public sector employers be held legally responsible for ""careless"" employment decisions? The answer is increasingly yes, and Robert J. Walter offers an overview of the risks public employers face under current liability laws and rulings. ""Employment process negligence"" suits will be successful if it can be shown that those making employment decisions failed to exercise ""reasonable care"" in the hiring, supervision, or training of public sector employees, and that there exists a causal link between the decision and the injury that is the subject of the legal action. While government immunity laws are relevant in some of these cases, Walter shows that such protections can no longer be assumed."
10.2307_3109969	1985	"Growing stress in the relationship between federal political appointees and career officials during the past decade has received increasing attention from both scholars and practitioners. At the same time, the policy versus administration dichotomy has been resurrected and has cast the respective executive roles into renewed controversy. Two comparatively radical approaches to the executive relations problem include a reformulation of the executive work force system and the abandonment of open communications in the relationship. A more traditional proposal is the five-step action plan developed last year by four professional associations, including ASPA. Based on building mutual understanding, shared perspectives, and a degree of trust by using a variety of orientations and communication techniques, this approach has been endorsed by officials of the Reagan administration and has begun to be implemented."
10.2307_3109967	1985	"Literature suggests a ""conventional wisdom"" that arbitrators generally are reluctant to accept interest arbitration cases. We examined factors which influenced the acceptance of such cases by experienced arbitrators. Of 285 members of the National Academy of Arbitrators who responded to our survey, 72 percent said that they would hear interest cases, time permitting. Twenty-two percent said that they would ""sometimes"" hear such cases, while only 6 percent indicated that they refused to hear interest cases. The decision to accept such cases was systematically related to arbitrators' knowledge of union, management and other arbitration panel members to be involved, to single-arbitrator or tripartite arbitration and last-offer or traditional arbitration, and to the type and number of issues involved."
10.2307_976346	1993	"How can conflicts arising over collective bargaining agreements be reduced? David Carnevale examines the history of such disputes and finds that the parties have relied on rights arbitration or adjudication as the preferred means for resolving day-to-day work controversies. However, he points out that the search for options to traditional arbitration has led to experiments with alternative dispute resolution (ADR) in an effort to reduce transaction costs and to elevate satisfaction with outcomes. A successful ADR experiment, conducted in one jurisdiction of the U. S. Postal Service, is described. The case illustrates that the principles of ""interest-based"" problem solving, employed increasingly in the negotiation of collective bargaining contracts, may also be successfully extended to their administration."
10.2307_3135024	1985	"The Supreme Court's decision in INS v. Chadha (1983) set up unrealistic expectations about the disappearance of the legislative veto. Instead of sounding its death knell, the legislative veto is alive and well. The decision stimulated the executive and legislative branches to find ingenious and novel methods of achieving basically the same results: broad delegations of legislative power by Congress to the agencies, checked by congressional controls that do not need enactment of another law. Some of the new legislative vetoes are informal and non-statutory. A few rely on convoluted uses of the rulemaking powers available to the House and the Senate. Others are indistinguishable from the legislative veto supposedly struck down by the court. The adoption of joint resolutions as a substitute for one-House and two-House vetoes has introduced complex strategies between the branches, often putting the president in a weaker position than before. These consequences, sometimes of a surprising and bizarre nature, flow from a court decision that was broader than necessary."
10.2307_975859	1984	"The process is described and analyzed by which (1) multiple exceptions to unitary budgeting emerged and won general acceptance; (2) a return to a comprehensive budgetary overview seemed useful, and (3) both unitary and multiple approaches are practiced, along with overlap between public and private sectors of the national accounts."
10.2307_976149	1985	"As instrumental rewards become more scarce under general government retrenchment, public employers need to rely more heavily on intrinsic rewards as a basis for employee performance. This paper examines the impact of job security, recognition for the public service and changes in agency staffing on one an important intrinsic reward, organizational involvement. Analysis of variance and multiple regression are used to explore these relationships; the data are based on a 1982 survey of 484 federal, state, and local government employees in Kansas and Missouri. The results suggest a generally overlooked resource for enhancing organizational involvement, public service recognition. The research indicates that the sense of recognition accorded to the public service has a strong influence on the employee's job involvement, with higher level employees exhibiting more sensitivity to recognition than lower level employees. In contrast, job security and changes in staffing levels demonstrate only modest impacts on employees' involvement."
10.2307_976433	1994	"What do editors and editorial boards look for in a public administration journal? The boundaries and characteristics of public administration are partly shaped and defined by professional journals. This research stratifies the journals responsible for disseminating theoretical and practical knowledge in the discipline of public administration, including the fields of policy analysis, budgeting and finance, personnel administration, and organization studies. Based on a survey of editors and editorial board members, this study identifies and ranks the top ten journals in each field. Results indicated that the most highly ranked journals have broad mission statements, focus on core public administration issues, have stringent review requirements, and are published in the United States."
10.2307_3110391	1992	"How can we explain the ebb and flow of power and responsibility in the U.S. federal system? James Edwin Kee and John Shannon offer an explanation focusing on dynamic changes generated by periods of crisis and anticrisis. During times of national crisis, e.g., war, governmental activities become increasingly centered in Washington where major initiatives emerge, while states and localities are less active. During peacetime, the opposite tendencies and trends take hold, generating considerably more activity in states and localities than in Washington. Kee and Shannon apply this model to three major phases in the history of American federalism, paying special attention to the most recent period in which the federal government retains leadership in regulatory and social insurance areas while states and localities constantly react to fiscal pressures. The authors discuss the implications of this explanation and the current dynamic in American government in which there are ""too many crises at the state-local level and too few at the central level."""
10.2307_976977	1990	"A survey of the public affairs/public administration masters programs affiliated with the National Association of Schools of Public Affairs and Administration (NASPAA) in 1989 indicates reasonably widespread agreement on the substance of public administration education, especially on an ""inner core"" curriculum that exists in a majority of respondent programs. Despite this agreement, no evidence indicates that accreditation by NASPAA is leading to a standardized curriculum, as has been feared by some. Accreditation does seem to have an impact, though, if only because larger programs are more likely to be accredited. In addition, substantial pressures support still more expanded curricula, with many program representatives commenting on the need for increased attention to ethics, computer science, or nonprofit management. Given real educational needs of public servants, academic public administration may well have to extend offerings in these areas."
10.2307_976771	1995	"To what extent do legislative policy research agencies use college and university personnel? What legislative/academic institutional arrangements are used to facilitate cooperation in policy research? What barriers limit further utilization of academics? What perception do legislative staff members have regarding the value of university based personnel? These questions are addressed in this article in an analysis based on survey data gathered in conjunction with the Research and Committee Staff section of the National Conference of State Legislatures. The authors found that, for the most part, legislative research agencies do not rely much on college and university personnel, and when they do, the majority of their reliance is grounded on informal, direct contacts with individual faculty and staff members. Based on the findings of the survey and on direct contact with legislative staff members, the authors discuss some of the crucial factors that will influence the further development of legislative/college and university relationships."
10.2307_976545	1992	"Is the case study approach an appropriate methodology in public administration research? In contrast to the views of McCurdy and Cleary (1984), White (1986b), and others, Mary Timney Bailey posits that case study methods are central to the work of physics, chemistry, and other ""hard"" sciences which those critics seek to emulate in the study of Public Administration. She argues that properly structured case studies will live up to the scientific standards of rigor, including generalizability, transferability, and replicatability. In addition, Bailey addresses the argument against the practitioner-focused research by reasserting Dwight Waldo's contention that a bond exists between theory and practice in public administration."
10.2307_975569	1986	"The existing theoretical framework for research in Management Information Systems (MIS) is criticized for its lack of attention to the external environment of organizations, and a new framework is developed which better accommodates MIS in public organizations: Public Management Information Systems (PMIS). Four models of publicness which reflect external organizational environments are integrated into a single model. The basic model of publicness is then used to develop a series of propositions/prescriptions which differentiate management of information systems between public and private organizations. Real examples are used to illustrate these propositions."
10.2307_976994	1988	"To reduce the size and scope of government in the delivery of public services, load-shedding to the private sector or other privatization arrangements (e. g., contracting, vouchers, more extensive use of volunteers or self-help) have been advocated. This article first examines this prevalent face of privatization and then explores the relationship between privatization initiatives and two perennial concerns of American democracy--citizenship and community. A number of heuristic models are offered to elucidate the role of citizens under various service delivery arrangements. The article concludes that, while privatization may improve service delivery efficiency, the desire for cost savings must be balanced against more normative issues. Service delivery arrangements that ensure competition and allow active citizen participation are viewed as most compatible with traditional American values."
10.2307_3109970	1985	"If mentoring is a useful device to facilitate career advancement of women, problems unique to women need to be confronted in its use. This is a case study of obstacles to career advancement of women in the Milwaukee District Office of the Internal Revenue Service. A comprehensive set of possible obstacles are identified and tests are performed to assess how they affect women in this particular organization. From the results, implications for mentoring are discussed. The article concludes with several cautions and comments regarding the use of mentoring for women's career advancement."
10.2307_976575	1989	"This article concerns five of the key individual level propositions found in the public-choice model as it has been applied to the governing of metropolitan areas. The findings of this study are based on surveys of respondents living in five matched pairs of spatially defined areas or communities located in two metropolitan areas, one of which is characterized by high levels of governmental fragmentation while the other operates under a consolidated form of government. Contrary to expectations based on the public-choice model, citizens living in smaller local jurisdictions located in the more fragmented system were not better informed about the scope and nature of their local tax-service package; they were not more efficacious about their relationships with their local government; they were not more likely to participate in local affairs; and they were not more satisfied with their local services and the performance of their local governments than their counterparts living in the consolidated setting. Nor did the evidence support the public-choice contention that satisfaction with local services is more widely dispersed across local jurisdictions in more fragmented systems."
10.2307_975760	1988	"Jim Webb and Elmer Staats are distinguished examples of lifelong devotion to civic duty and public service. This article expresses the values and disciplines which have been foundations of their vital service to American constitutional government. It is an informed, urgent call for public service renewal."
10.2307_977006	1989	"This article reports the results of a 1987-1988 survey of 451 municipal managers regarding the use and perceived effectiveness of numerous management tools. Viewed in conjunction with findings from two earlier surveys, the data presented in this article reflect the continuation of the ""boom in management tools"" and show that the public manager's tool kit has both expanded and stabilized over the past decade. Techniques such as program budgeting, management by objectives (MBO), performance monitoring, and program evaluation have indeed become staples of modern municipal management during this period, while several more recent tools such as financial trend monitoring, multiyear forecasting, strategic planning, and quality circles have experienced rapid diffusion in local government. The positive effectiveness ratings accorded to most of these tools seem to reflect a high level of enthusiasm and suggest that the further development and adaptation of new management systems will continue to be of major interest to municipal managers well into the future."
10.2307_976784	1990	"Differences between public and private organizations lie at the core of public administration's theoretical base. Empirical tests of hypothesized differences in information system management between public and private organizations strongly demonstrate the basis for such distinctions in this study. Consistent differences are identified in both the organizational environment and managerial activity of data processing organizations between sectors. A public organization's environment reflects greater interdependence and accountability, which leads in part to more red tape. Differences in the criteria used for purchasing hardware and software, planning processes, and placement of the top data processing manager reflect reasonable adjustments to management strategies and actions for coping with these different organizational environments."
10.2307_977010	1989	"The National Park Service and park policy have been increasingly criticized in recent years for being both overprotective and underprotective of natural resources and for overpromoting and underpromoting public use of the national parks. Focusing on the large western natural areas, this article develops a framework for understanding national park policy. Debate over park policy centers on two dimensions: agency versus political control over policy and preservation versus public use of the national parks. The framework utilizes these two dimensions to locate actors in the park policy debate, and it suggests that the Park Service itself may have the best opportunity to resolve policy conflicts, if the agency can successfully manage the political aspects of natural-resource policy making."
10.2307_976529	1994	"Cybernetic theory-what possible relevance can it have for public administration? E. Sam Overman and Donna T. Loraine emphasize its usefulness in decision making and control in the public sector. Their study empirically examines the signal hypothesis in the context of management control systems for 99 defense contracts. They find no empirical evidence to support the signal hypothesis that information is used for controlling project cost, schedule, or quality. However, qualitative findings, they argue, suggest that information does have considerable symbolic value, espcially as potential signal. Information for control, they contend, is more proverb than principle. The authors discuss chaos theory as an alternative to the cybernetic theory of information for control."
10.2307_976768	1995	"Several scholars have suggested reorienting the study of public policy away from programs and agencies and toward policy tools such as regulations and loan guarantees. They have developed a theoretical justification for the tools approach and described the politics of individual tools. They have predicted several ways in which policy tools should differ but have offered little empirical evidence to demonstrate that important differences exist. The author investigates the extent to which policy tools differ by comparing tax expenditures to direct expenditures, two important policy tools. This comparison produces mixed results, suggesting the need for further empirical study and further refinement of the ways in which tools matter. In particular, the choice of tax expenditures versus direct expenditures appears to matter more for the enactment of new programs than for their subsequent growth and administration."
10.2307_976412	1991	"What are the education and skill needs of public authority managers? Professor Mitchell undertook a survey of authority executive directors to find some answers, and what he discovered has implications for both the practice and education of these important agency leaders. Based on responses from 1,243 executive directors, the study offers a profile that shows many to be careerists with a diversity of educational backgrounds and skills similar to public administration professionals in general. Mitchell compares this profile with those of city management professionals, and while finding differences between the two groups, he suggests that the strong sense of professional identity among city managers may be a model for public authority managers to consider."
10.2307_977279	1993	"How can governments overcome the centrifugal tendencies of modern bureaucracies? One answer is by creating ""corporate cultures"" that provide a common ground among independent agencies. Jacques Bourgault, St??phane Dion, and Marc Lemay discuss how the Canadian federal government's performance appraisal system promoted a corporate culture among senior level managers (deputy ministers). Through team-building and the strengthening of professional values, the performance appraisal system generates a sense of collective responsibility. The authors emphasize the role of the corporate culture as a counterbalance to the pull of parochial, departmental interests."
10.2307_975310	1987	"Recent studies of quality-circle programs suggest that such efforts are more likely to become institutionalized if they are results driven and compatible with the organization's culture. These propositions are examined here through a review of the development of a major quality circles program in Missouri state government. Clearly, careful work in the early stages of such a program can go far toward insuring its long-term viability."
10.2307_976444	1996	"Is the independent sector prepared to assume the burdens that proposed reforms would impose on it? The author, a leading spokesperson for third sector organizations, raises some significant questions about the movement to transfer greater responsibilities to voluntary and not-for-profit organizations."
10.2307_975988	1984	"The centralized, executive budget is widely viewed as the predominant form of local government budgeting in the United States. But what is the practice in smaller, rural governments which lack strong chief executives? This article describes the annual budgeting processes and roles in such locales, based on case studies of eight municipalities and four counties in California and Illinois. Budgeting in these jurisdictions is characterized by multiple roles in budget preparation, a key individual who serves as coordinator and compiler of budget requests, and overlap of legislative and administrative responsibilities. In some rural localities the budget is used as a policy tool for priority setting, but in others the budget process is performed only to fulfill legal requirements. Factors such as the personal interests of local elected officials, local tradition, and the strength of legislative involvement affect the influence administrators have on budget policy."
10.2307_976871	1990	"The status, and even the existence, of comparative public administration has been seriously questioned for the last 10 to 15 years. To investigate research in the comparative field, a content analysis was conducted of 20 likely journal sources for the years 1982-1986. A total of 253 articles was coded and analyzed. This research found that the literature is indeed substantial. Characteristics of recent journal literature include a significant practitioner component, a substantial orientation toward policy recommendations, a relative paucity of theory-testing studies, wide and mature coverage of a range of topics, and methodological practices that seem slightly better than in the past but still far from ideal. The field as a whole, however, lacks features that give it a clear identity (e. g., state-of-the-art critiques, methodological pieces, and broader, middle-range theorizing), and thus the overall status of comparative public administration remains ambiguous."
10.2307_976865	1990	"This article describes the past and present and projects the future of the relationship between theory and practice for both normative and descriptive budget theory. It argues that budgeters have underestimated the successes. The present and future of normative theory look gloomy without major fresh ideas because the world of budgeting has changed and many traditional reform ideas have out-lived their usefulness. Descriptive theory has traditionally been weaker, but it has improved in recent years and will probably do well in the near future."
10.2307_3110348	1995	"Do managers in government perceive higher levels of red tape in their organizations than managers in industry? Most people would think so, but organizational researchers have often found that government organizations do not necessarily have higher levels of rule intensity than business firms. If there are higher levels in government, what explains their existence? Hal Rainey, Sanjay Pandey, and Barry Bozeman report on a survey of public and private managers' perceptions of red tape that supports some common assertions about red tape in government but that contrasts sharply with other assertions. The public and private managers differed little on general questions about rule enforcement. Yet the public managers were much more likely than private managers to report that rules constrain the relation between managers' performance and their pay and promotion. The authors assess several explanations of whether and why public managers may create red tape, including a goal ambiguity hypothesis, an insecurity hypothesis, and an expectancy hypothesis. The results show some support for the latter two hypotheses. The results also support the goal ambiguity hypothesis, but among both the public and private managers. The authors ultimately conclude that external rules and laws concerning such functions as personnel and procurement are the most important sources of red tape in government. The authors call for more systematic analysis of red tape, including the use of methods such as those reported here, in support of current reform efforts aimed at reducing red tape."
10.2307_977382	1994	"What is the difference between ecology and environmentalism? Jean Mercier identifies the institutional and organizational elements as well as the ""think globally, act locally"" proposition touted by ecologists. Ecologists, he claims, have focused their attention ""upstream,"" on the institutional arrangements which would prevent, in an ideal world, the deterioration of the planet, whereas environmentalists have focused their attention ""downstream,"" on the actual cleanup of the environment, which sometimes requires centralized, large scale solutions, often condemned by ecologists. Acknowledging that the urgency of the environmental situation may require sudden shifts in public policy, Mercier states that the more profoundly ecologist method would orient policy makers toward gradual and progressive change. According to the author, the paradoxes and occasional contradictions of ecological ideas can be explained in many ways. One of his explanations is that ecology is essentially an applied science where principles cannot be extended indefinitely without colliding with equally valid principles."
10.2307_977167	1992	"What has been the experience of post-Socialist European countries with privatization? E. S. Savas, a leading advocate of privatization, offers an overview of that experience, noting the wide range of privatizing strategies and some of the key problems that have emerged. Particular attention is paid to issues surrounding the determination of ownership, the valuation of state owned enterprises, how to ""sell"" the businesses, and the attitudes of many who have had limited contact with competitive market forces."
10.2307_3110029	1985	"This is a dialogue with Dwight Waldo, abstracted from an extended series of conservations with him on principal developments and issues in the field of public administration. It reflects Professor Waldo's continued search for the most relevant questions in the field, for approaches to understanding them, and for ways to devise solutions to some of them. While this conversation is a departure from PAR's usual format, it may be instructive for coming years as we reflect on the past history and future prospects of public administration."
10.2307_976868	1990	"Historically, dominant political ideologies and movements have promoted different models of the American federal service. The political referent or foundation of each model was critical to its potential strength and durability. The current ""quiet crisis"" in the federal service is due in part to the absence of a dominant political coalition or consensus regarding the model on which public administration should be based. However, extensive changes concerning federal personnel administration will bring about fundamental alterations in the federal service even in the absence of agreement on whether and how to rebuild. The public administration community can play a vital role in negotiating the coming changes."
10.2307_976386	1989	"The controversy over pay inequity between working men and women in recent years has been unnecessarily limited to a debate on comparable worth. This article focuses on broader Title VII approaches to gender discrimination in pay, including claims based on unequal pay for equal work, unjustified pay disparity for those who are similarly situated, and unequal pay for comparable worth. It also examines how lower federal courts have responded to these claims. The article finds the debate between U. S. Supreme Court Justices Brennan and Rehnquist in County of Washington v. Gunther in 1981 to be helpful in understanding why most lower federal courts thus far have refused to recognize comparable worth claims. It also finds that the U. S. Supreme Court's 1986 decision on Bazemore v. Friday, which recognized ""multiple regression"" as acceptable circumstantial evidence in establishing a prima facie case of discrimination, has made it possible for Title VII claimants who allege intentional discrimination or ""those who are similarly situated"" to proceed on the basis of ""comparable work."" An analysis of 62 lawsuits litigated under Title VII in federal district and circuit courts from 1982 to 1988 suggests that Title VII claimants in the future are more likely than before to challenge their employers on the basis of equal work or comparable work-not comparable worth."
10.2307_975521	1988	"Critics of American bureaucracy contend that professionalism constitutes a threat to bureaucratic responsiveness, as an increasingly professionalized public service tends to be self-serving, self-perpetuating, and non-responsive to the public interest. This article suggests that professionalism and bureaucratic responsiveness are not necessarily in conflict. A reconceptualization of Price's model of the four estates demonstrates the increasing interpenetration of the estates, particularly the professions and the administrators. We suggest that the expanded role of the professional administrator encourages bureaucratic responsiveness and conclude that the advantages of a professionalized bureaucracy far exceed the disadvantages."
10.2307_977149	1993	Why is it that changes in one program area often coincide with similar changes in other programs. Saundra Schneider investigates three possible linkages: causal interdependencies; common environmental influences; and program-specific factors that are correlated across programs. She develops a model to test these three linkages by analyzing state-level data on the AFDC and Medicaid programs. Her empirical results demonstrate the overall relationship between AFDC and Medicaid and attribute it to an asymmetric causal influence as well as the two programs' dependence on their respective recipient populations. Her findings have important implications for understanding the structure and evolution of social welfare policies in the American states.
10.2307_975571	1986	"This paper explores ways in which policy makers think about the value of information in the policy process. Close to 200 federal, state, and local policy makers gave us their judgments about information systems which were mandated by the federal government in elementary and secondary education. We predicted that the value they reported would be influenced by their structural location in the educational policy system and by the policy theories about education which they embraced. These predictions were confirmed. Knowledge of a policy maker's structural location and policy theories facilitates understanding of how much he or she will value federal data on education. The results point toward a clearer understanding of the political context in which federal information systems must operate."
10.2307_976908	1988	"This paper proposes a new conceptual framework for integrating cost-benefit analysis (CBA) and cash-flow analysis (CFA) into a two-tiered methodology for evaluating local government activities. The evaluation procedure may be entered from either a CBA or a CFA perspective. The revolution in financing of American state and local governments engendered by fiscal austerity is steadily breaching the traditional separation of revenue and expenditure in CBA. This paper demonstrates that breaching and its implications explain the major issues encountered in developing an integrated, two-tiered methodology for project evaluation, and it applies the methodology to illustrative case studies of a parking garage and an emergency ambulance service."
10.2307_977039	1996	"What are the appropriate basic research questions public administration must address if it is to aspire to the status of a science? It is the philosophical nature of the true sciences that those basic questions concern the essential character and origins of their core subject matters. Neumann proposes that the appropriate research questions for public administration, those at the level which defines the discipline, must concern the structure and dynamics of the public organization. Within the physical sciences, a new paradigm is emerging that views natural systems as nonlinear, complex, and ""chaotic."" This new view of open systems now obliges public administrators to readdress the dynamics of their own artificial systems-the public organizations. Thus, such basic questions as those which relate to organizational theory, public management, and the relationship of the public organization to its environment now need to be revisited under the concepts of complexity and chaos."
10.2307_976165	1986	"This is an examination of some major problems arising in the international civil service as it has developed in the United Nations system. The authors first sketch the institutional structure within which personnel policies are formulated and applied. Then they successively discuss the nature of the service, with its commitment to exclusive loyalty; the problem of the composition of international secretariats which need to reflect a multiplicity of cultures; the notion of the service as a career; criteria used to determine remuneration levels; and morale of staff who are exposed to the problems of permanent expatriation and who must sometimes perform in adverse environments."
10.2307_977141	1993	"Is there symmetry between women and men in public management in terms of opportunity, power, and numbers? Mary Guy examines two decades of affirmative action initiatives. She finds the number of women in decision-making positions disproportionately low when compared to their numbers in the public work force. Women's integration into the fabric of American governance has been marked by surges of progress followed by periods of quiescence. Her article compares the status of women to that of men in career public management positions and argues that women have a long way to go before they will reach parity."
10.2307_976541	1992	"How did the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act (GRH) impact on U. S. defense spending? Focusing on defense spending from 1986-1989, Sung Deuk Hahm, Mark Kamlet, and David Mowery found defense spending to be lower than it would have been without GRH. GRH partially, but not completely, returned defense spending priorities and defense-fiscal policy linkages to their pre-Reagan status. GRH restrained expenditures by a similar percentage in all of the functional defense categories except one-the politically sensitive areas of research, development, test and evaluation. This finding contrasts with previous studies that found the impacts to be uneven across functional spending categories."
10.2307_975906	1987	"This article details research designed to test how strongly the Progressive ideal of a neutral civil service and procedures based on scientific management principles are still rooted in the personnel bureaus of local government. A survey of personnel directors in cities over 100,000 provided the data; the survey had a response rate of 85.5 percent. Major findings are that personnel directors in most cities interact with local elected officials and federal representatives concerning recruitment, selection, examinations, minority hiring, hiring of females, and selection of individual job candidates. However, many cities still use written examinations for many job categories, and half continue to use the rule of three."
10.2307_976984	1990	"Unlike the Budget and Accounting Act of 1921, which required the President to play a central role in the budget process, recent reforms in the Budget Act of 1974 and the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Acts of 1985 and 1987 take the spotlight off the President's personal role. Instead, responsibility for budget preparation and control of budget aggregates is now diffused and confused, with the public unable to hold either Congress or the President responsible. This article argues that the basic principle of the 1921 statute was correct: the political system of the United States requires the President to take personal and visible responsibility for submitting a national budget. The process since 1974 has encouraged the phenomenal budget deficits of the past decade and discourages efforts to deal with them. As part of an effort to restore presidential responsibility, Congress should repeal the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings Act and also eliminate the adoption of budget resolutions, shifting the full burden of budget preparation to the President."
10.2307_977297	1990	"How does a new agency identify goals and develop standard operating procedures to interpret and implement its statutory authorization? The common wisdom is that a new bureau, sparked by zealous administrators and an enthusiastic political environment, implements its responsibilities with a vitality rarely found in older agencies. But because a new agency lacks routines, stability, and past experience that lead to bureaucratic power, it may well be that it fumbles around, implementing its programs slowly and with many errors. By examining the initial years of the U. S. Consumer Product Safety Commission, this article analyzes these two disparate views of the behavior of new agencies. The Commission was not a vigorous, energetic agency in its early years. It was overwhelmed by uncertainty, and it did not have the experience and knowledge to develop the sophisticated standard operating procedures necessary for effective action."
10.2307_975663	1984	"Microelectronics are everywhere from video games to the dashboards of our cars, but one of the last holdouts appears to be use of microcomputers in local government. This article explores some of the areas where microcomputers can be used readily and easily with a minimum amount of operator training. It will be seen that in some cases a $15,000 expenditure in a microcomputer system can pay for itself in as short as one month in terms of savings for utility production costs."
10.2307_976619	1990	"This article explores an important factor in retaining high quality employees: giving employees reasons to stay with their current work organizations. Employees who feel psychological ties to their workplaces are likely to remain in them. Employees' psychological ties to employers can be based on investments they have made in the workplace and/or on feelings of commitment to an agency. Investment ties are not difficult for agencies to sustain among their employees, but they can be expensive. Eliciting employee commitment based on shared values is a much more complex challenge for agencies. Public agencies and supervisors have little influence over the development of ties based on investments because most investment opportunities are established by legislative mandate. And given public sector fiscal constraints, investment ties are likely to be inadequate to sustain long-term employee retention. Employee commitment is another matter. An agency's culture, socialization processes, and ability to fulfill employees' expectations about work can influence the employee commitment process. These are factors that agency managers can influence, and they warrant managers' attention."
10.2307_975599	1988	"Medicaid is a vital element of the government's strategy for assisting the poor. However, little is really known about the factors which affect program spending. This study looks at national, state, and local influences on state Medicaid expenditures for the period from 1975 to 1985. The analysis shows that incrementalism, local administration, and the Reagan presidency all have had profound impacts on Medicaid policy. The administrative structure of Medicaid implementation must be taken into account in order to explain program differences across states and across time."
10.2307_977042	1996	"How productive have the faculties, graduate students, and graduates of public administration and public affairs programs been over the past several years? In order to answer this question, the author examined 11 journals published between 1986 and 1993. Publication totals were used to measure the productivity of programs. The author notes that many of the programs found to have highly productive faculties in earlier studies by Legge and Devore (1987) and Morgan et al. (1981) have maintained top positions, while the remainder of the programs tended to change positions in an unpredictable manner. A relationship was also found to exist between programs with productive faculties and programs with productive graduate students and graduates. In addition, the author reveals that few scholars published more than two articles in the journals under review between 1986 and 1993."
10.2307_977185	1995	"If there exists an idea common to both privatization theory and evidence, it is that a simple transfer of a service from a public monopoly to a private one is unlikely to yield improvements in either service quality or cost. Does zero redundancy in service delivery then promote optimal efficiency as many reform efforts contend? Using data from a large sample of cities, Miranda and Lerner demonstrate that service delivery arrangements that mix private or nonprofit sector production with some in-house government production are generally cost effective. In some instances, such arrangements may be more cost effective than exclusive production by the private sector alone. Consistent with arguments made by Landau and Niskanen, the evidence in this study suggests that the deliberate introduction of redundancy can improve organizational and system performance."
10.2307_3110151	1985	"Understanding the relations between elected and administrative officials in council-manager cities is hampered by inadequate models for assigning responsibility for governmental functions. Practitioners tend to view their roles in terms of the traditional model based on dichotomy of policy and administration and, though aware of exceptions, are uncomfortable with them. Scholars, on the other hand, having rejected this model, see extensive overlap and have difficulty recognizing limits of the policy-making role of the manager. This paper draws on field observations in the five cities in North Carolina with populations of more than 100,000 and a review of the literature to consider a number of ""existing"" models of the policy-administration relationship and to propose a new formulation that is empirically sound and responsive to practitioners' concern for normative guides to behavior. The proposed model is based on a separation of responsibility for the definition of mission by elected officials and the management of programs by administrative staff. Policy and administration-which fall between mission and management-are viewed as the shared responsibility of elected officials and staff, with each having a legitimate role in both functions. Implications of the model for administrative ethics, council roles, and future research are explored."
10.2307_976066	1987	"In early 1987 nearly one-fourth of the states (12) had adopted some form of executive personnel system, the first having been created in California in 1963. This article undertakes to describe the philosophy, characteristics, and present status of these various approaches to the management of leadership resources. To provide the information for this study, a survey covering the 48 contiguous states was conducted by telephone, mail correspondence, and personal interviews. While there is a rich variation of approaches within the states, the conclusion is that such systems have done little to alleviate critical problems of attracting talented people to leadership roles in the states; to utilize available resources effectively; and to develop leadership personnel for the future."
10.2307_975659	1984	"This paper provides a systematic and empirical analysis of the impact of computers on the work environment of selected types of ""white collar"" professional service workers in municipal governments in the United States. While there have been hyperbolic claims about the impact of computers on the professional work-place, the effects that are empirically validated are marginal. Moreover, the patterns and levels of computer impacts on work vary across roles. A particularly significant finding is that greater employee control in the workplace is attributed to the computer as the employee's role ascends the organizational hierarchy. This is the first empirical confirmation that computer technology enables an information elite to reap the greatest increases in control within organizations. It suggests that empirical research on the distribution of control within organizations and on the rise of technocratic elites might focus on the nature of information elites, in particular, to determine whose interests and agenda will be best served by the actions of the information elite."
10.2307_975767	1988	"Despite interest in recent years in the design and conduct of citizen surveys by public administrators as an aid in the management process, relatively little attention has been paid to the potential utility for public managers of published opinion polls. Based on an extensive review of polls on contemporary health care issues, this article seeks to demonstrate insights available to public administrators from these sources. Also discussed are methodological weaknesses of opinion poll data and some analytic strategies for coping with them."
10.2307_975660	1984	"Most multi-agency planning efforts are organized to coordinate activities in a given geographic region or a given field of activity. These multi-agency planning programs have suffered from a nearly universal commitment to comprehensive, rational, linear planning processes. Overall planning processes are not binding on participating agencies and are conducted on scales which limit their utility to individual agencies. Tennessee has developed a multi-agency planning program for natural areas. This program incorporates the individual agency planning processes without an overall or ""master"" planning process. This multi-agency program is further characterized by a commitment to action based on present levels of information and a consequent commitment to incremental decision making and routine plan revision. The Tennessee Protection Planning Process is a successful, multi-agency planning process based on general principles with broad application to any multi-agency planning process organized by geographic and/or subject field."
10.2307_976459	1992	"Can Judaeo-Christian values play an effective role in the management of public organizations? In a 1962 PAR article, Robert T. Golembiewski argued that they could and provided evidence indicating that organizations operating under those fundamental values can achieve higher satisfaction and productivity. An excerpted version of that classic article is presented here, followed by a retrospective essay by its author. A significant body of work has been built on the foundations laid by Professor Golembiewski's 1962 article. He reflects on that body of work as well as the present and future direction of the moral approach to human organizations. This is followed by comments on Golembiewski's work by Robert Denhardt and Jewel Scott."
10.2307_976785	1990	"Chapman's fiscal impact model published in Public Administration Review (July/August 1988) uses economic club theory to illustrate the conceptual relationship between local budgeting and land use planning. This article makes two contributions to the topic of local fiscal coordination. First, it suggests how to apply Chapman's positive theory to a wider variety of growth management scenarios. Second, it examines the critically important normative and social-externality issues involved in local fiscal stabilization. Economic club theory in this context necessarily embeds problems of economic segregation, exclusionary zoning, and regional burden sharing. The article discusses three important caveats about Chapman's recommendation that local development policy be guided by fiscal impact analysis."
10.2307_977289	1990	"These reflections focus on the origins and accomplishments of administrative management in the United States national government, but they reach well beyond that. Drawing on 60 years of leadership as a practitioner, academician, and--above all--a responsible citizen, the author discusses origins of the U. S. Bureau of the Budget, the American Society for Public Administration, the United Nations, and much more. He concludes with ten lessons for future guidance, based on his administrative experience."
10.2307_977169	1992	"How does the arrangement of civic space influence the conduct of public business? Mary R. Domihidy and James F. Gilsinan study the spatial arrangements surrounding the work of a midwestern city planning commission. Their analysis focuses attention on three spatial areas: a front stage where the commission holds public hearings and formal business meetings; a back stage space where planning commissioners meet around a conference table in a less formal and less structured atmosphere; and a deeper back stage area (the planner's office) where business is conducted in private meetings. Domihidy and Gilsinan provide an overview of the policy-making dynamics in each space and discuss the implications of each area on decision making. The analysis also touches on the increasing importance of social space (e. g., meetings held in restaurants) and the growing impact of unbounded space (e. g., exchanges taking place in the media or through telecommunications technology)."
10.2307_975593	1987	"Societal, agency, and program demographic trends are leading to career plateauing and aging of the workforce. This article presents the results of an empirical study of the effects of demographic trends on a local government occupational group-local public welfare workers. It considers the effects of these trends on managers' abilities to foster new ideas and developments, to achieve affirmative action goals, and to ensure employee motivation, performance, and productivity. It concludes with a discussion of diverse strategies for human resource management."
10.2307_976615	1990	"The problem of the coexistence of democracy and the administrative state is addressed using Hong Kong as a case study. The views of 234 senior civil servants are reported concerning the desirability of moving toward a democratic government as Hong Kong undergoes a transition from British to Chinese sovereignty in 1997. Problems of inconsistency between their administrative role definition as guardians of the public good and participatory democratic government are identified. Comparisons are made to similar problems in other countries, and three factors crucial for democratizing the administrative state are discussed. These include the meaning of democracy, the definition of the responsibilities of senior civil servants in the achievement and maintenance of a democratic polity, and the regime values of Hong Kong. The reluctance of China to concede to rapid and full democratization is acknowledged as a formidable obstacle beyond these factors internal to Hong Kong."
10.2307_3135017	1985	"In the early 1970s federal judges proclaimed a new era in administrative law and a ""judicial-administrative partnership"" in regulatory politics. Courts sought to democratize and judicialize the administrative process. Over a decade later, the author argues, it is clear that the partnership amounts to judicial usurpation of administrative authority. Judicial intervention in the implementation of entitlement programs and programs for aid to the handicapped is illustrative. Courts have strengthened the power of congressional subcommittees and special interests, at the expense of the presidency, over policy formulation and program development. Courts have not only assumed a major role in public administration, an as yet poorly understood political coalition, or court-agency-subcommittee-special interest group partnership, has emerged, with important consequences for American politics."
10.2307_3110342	1995	"What can state and local officials do to prepare themselves for their role in the global economy? With state and local governments expanding their efforts to promote exports and attract foreign investment, encounters with officials from foreign corporations and governments have increased. The issue of how to prepare for these cross-cultural encounters is rarely addressed. This article provides some tools for thinking systematically about techniques for cross-cultural training and making cost-efficient decisions about appropriate actions in different situations."
10.2307_975887	1987	"A consequence of the drive to privatize public services will be a diminution of constitutional protections. According to current U. S. Supreme Court interpretations of the State Action Doctrine, the Constitution limits private agencies only when their specific actions are directly attributable to the State. Through a review of Supreme Court decisions, this paper identifies a variety of arrangements between governments and private services providers that immunize both government and private groups from constitutional restraints."
10.2307_3109937	1985	"History of the formal discussion provision of Title VII of the U.S. Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 offers valuable information about the lawmaking process, especially in the area of labor-management relations policy. This study examines the problems associated with implementation of the provision. It reveals that no correlation exists between current practices and the intent of the originators of the provision in 1962. More importantly, the study describes how technical statutory language of a cryptic nature can escape careful congressional scrutiny. The import is no small matter. Parallel research demonstrates that the provision is costly and creates significant operating problems for managers and supervisors."
10.2307_976407	1991	"What is the role of the government auditor in today's public administration? Professor Wheat discusses the dramatic emergence of performance auditing and the activist auditor as central features of American government at all levels. After reviewing various factors that have led to the widespread adoption of performance auditing, Wheat provides examples of its more ""activist"" practitioners. Proactive and independent, they are typically willing to go beyond expressed mandates, to initiate audits, and to issue special reports on financial trends. Adherents to ""generally accepted government auditing standards,"" activist auditors regard the public as their ""ultimate client."" Wheat concludes by noting the benefits gained by having the ""new players"" on the governmental scene."
10.2307_975579	1986	"Intelligent advisory systems (IASs) are computer programs that use the techniques of artificial intelligence to mimic human expertise. This paper focuses on two contributions of IASs to managing and disseminating information in and among public organizations. First, IASs can serve as user-friendly front-ends for existing databases. More important, however, is their ability to manage data by employing the system's knowledge about the subject and the database to conduct the most efficient possible searches of the data and to interpret the results of those searches. Second, IASs serve as a means of making expertise held by only one member of an organization available to other members or of making expertise held by one public organization available to other organizations. They can serve to teach new staff, upgrade the expertise of existing staff, and ensure consistency among different staff. Although the scope of IASs is presently limited by technology and our understanding of human cognition, the benefits they can provide within their proper sphere are large enough to merit serious attention."
10.2307_975600	1988	"Regulatory negotiation brings representatives of affected interests together to reach consensus on the content and sometimes the language of a proposed rulemaking. This article examines regulatory negotiation as a policy process, stressing in particular its contrasts with conventional rulemaking, its relationship to environmental dispute settlement generally, and its comparisons with more analytically-based approaches to making environmental policy. The article considers four of the seven negotiations conducted to date by the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency as cases for the analysis. Negotiation appears to offer a number of advantages over the conventional rulemaking process, including the parties' access to practical information that can be considered as it is needed; the opportunity to educate potential opponents and persuade them that adopting a particular provision will not harm their interests; and the parties' capacity to rank and trade off positions to maximize their own interests. A theoretical analysis, however, suggests limitations to the applications of negotiation-its theory of representation and its potential subordination of decision premises to the instrumental needs of the parties and the process. Within its limits, however, and with procedural safeguards, regulatory negotiation can offer a valuable complement to the conventional rulemaking process."
10.2307_977250	1996	"Do divergent values embedded in distinctive cultures satisfactorily explain current directions in public service ethics around the world? The authors draw upon expert observation by government and corporate officials who administer ethics programs, leaders known for their moral courage, survey research, and the scholarly literature to identify these directions and begin addressing the question. The central argument is that observable practice increasingly invalidates an approach that relies exclusively upon cultural particularities. Identified commonalties susceptible to objective research include shared values and norms such as impartiality and effectiveness in public service, structural elements in part fostered by shared goals and multinational anti-corruption initiatives, and the self-conscious injection of normative components into ethics programs. Emerging from a cross-cultural empirical perspective that allows for mutualities as well as differences, the authors' rich research agenda included investigation of the alleged links between public attitudes and ethics programs and between codes and actual administrative behavior, and development of appropriate measures of ethics programs' effectiveness. They concluded that professional public administration must remain intellectually open to global dialogue on shared values, norms, and structures."
10.2307_977180	1995	"Does Total Quality Management (TQM) simply redefine and consolidate principles and techniques that have been studied and applied by public administrators since the inception of the field? Should bureaucracies discard the philosophy as costly duplication or should bureaucracies adopt the philosophy because benefits, such as improvements in productivity and customer service, out-weigh the costs of TQM implementation? The author presents a case study with empirical data describing the impact of TQM in the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), an analysis which has implications for other public agencies. Although an analysis of selected input and output indicators shows no statistically significant difference before and after TQM implementation, the IRS reports having saved millions of dollars as a result of quality improvement process teams and other TQM initiatives. The IRS experience suggests that there are advantages to redefining the principles of public administration as principles of total quality management."
10.2307_975786	1986	"Performance appraisal is generally accepted as an important element of human resource management, a means not only of evaluating performance but also, ideally, of achieving performance improvement. Yet, little systematic research has been devoted to the examination of performance appraisal practices in local governments-and less still to the practices applicable to upper-level management in those governments. In this study, the authors use the survey responses of officials in 122 major U. S. cities to examine the methods and objectives of, and satisfaction with, appraisal practices affecting municipal department heads, mayoral assistants, and assistant city managers."
10.2307_976249	1988	"This paper addresses two questions. First, has the federal civil service made progress toward racial and sexual equality in the past decade? Second, has progress slowed during the Reagan Administration? The paper examines changes in total employment, employment at upper grade levels, average grade levels, average salaries, and unexplained salary gaps since 1976 for ten groups-Asian, Native American, Hispanic, black non-Hispanic, and white non-Hispanic men and women. The good news is that women and minorities have made progress relative to white males on all measures, and that progress has continued under Reagan. The bad news is that progress remains slow."
10.2307_976843	1989	"This article uses 2,290 rezoning applications in metropolitan Atlanta to examine prevailing views of rezoning by local governments. The conventional wisdom treats rezoning as a highly contentious political process in which citizens participate frequently and effectively, the expertise of professional planners has little effect on policy decisions, and elected officials readily succumb to public pressure to reject unwanted development. Contrary to this image, most cases involved only local officials and the party seeking the rezoning. When present, opposition seldom involved more than a handful of participants, and applicants were still granted rezonings in a majority of such cases. In addition, local officials ratified the vast majority of staff recommendations, and they reached unanimous decisions over 75 percent of the time. In sum, public participation may be less influential, and professional expertise more important, in rezoning decision making than is commonly supposed."
10.2307_976636	1991	"Is the Pentagon capable of managing the cutbacks and reductions it faces in the post-Cold War era? Fred Thompson argues that an historical mismatch between strategy and structure at the Defense Department will make that process difficult. Tracing the roots of this mismatch, Thompson contends that organizational solutions could be found in recommendations made by the late Frederick C. Mosher in 1954 and by Robert N. Anthony more than a decade later. The reform of the Defense Department depends on aligning strategy with structure, decentralizing, and establishing ""an account structure that is firmly grounded in the principles of responsibility budgeting and accounting."""
10.2307_977298	1990	"Evaluation of the relative health and ecological risks of environmental problems can provide a conceptual basis for planning and priority setting. An example is the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency's comparative risk projects, presented here as a risk-based planning process. This began as a national process that defined an approach, assembled data, identified methodological and data gaps and needs, and achieved a consensus on health, ecological, and welfare effects. Following this was a series of regional and state projects. Risk-based planning can shape environmental priorities in four ways: by informing an agency's exercise of discretion at the margins of choice; by focusing program strategies; by defining a basis for improved public participation; and by informing the process for setting the broader environmental policy agenda."
10.2307_975359	1985	"Most MPA programs require that students complete a single course in the budgeting and financial management area. This course typically gives significant coverage to about a third of the financial management skills that practitioners surveyed deemed essential. Analytic skills, such as cost-revenue analysis, financial condition evaluation, and cost-benefit analysis, are seldom covered in these required courses. Also, most courses do not include significant coverage of governmental accounting or computerized financial modeling."
10.2307_975763	1988	"Numerous public sector wage and benefit disputes revolve around the jurisdiction's ability to pay for union demands, and on many occasions local unions, often with the assistance of their national research staffs, search through the jurisdictions' budgets looking for funds they can ""capture."" This paper describes the relationships between the local and national unions in this process; lists the sources of information typically used by the unions; reviews typical econometric and comparative approaches used by unions in analyzing public budgets; describes the long-term budget strategies advocated by some unions; proposes an expanded theory of management ""hiding"" behavior; and discusses the effectiveness of union techniques."
10.2307_977203	1996	"How prepared is the public service to apply the Americans with Disabilities Act to workplace situations involving people with HIV/AIDS? Based on the views of municipal government chief administrative officers, James D. Slack addresses this question by examining the availability of (1) HIV/AIDS-related activities, (2) reasonable accommodations for employees with HIV/AIDS, and (3) reasonable accommodations for job applicants with HIV/AIDS. Survey findings suggest that, when it comes to HIV/AIDS in the workplace, municipal governments are poorly prepared to comply with the law. For members of this particular protected group, people with HIV/AIDS, the public workplace offers little protection. Lessons can be learned, however, from the experience of municipalities."
10.2307_3110242	1995	"What can be done to reorient tomorrow's city management? Robert T. Golembiewski and Gerald Gabris complete the work begun in the November/December 1994 issue of Public Administration Review. It was in that issue that the companion piece to this article appeared. Titled ""Today's City Managers,"" it has dual thrusts. It sketches several major ideas that led city managers to earlier successes, but which today and especially tomorrow are beside the point of emerging developments, if not roadblocks to them."
10.2307_977077	1990	"This article summarizes major changes in municipal budgeting over the last 20 years, and explores reasons behind these changes, using a case study of St. Louis, Missouri. The article concludes that several factors contributed to the changes, including long-term fiscal stress, technical capacity in terms of computerization and accounting systems, professional staff, and a supportive mayor. The budget changes give the mayor more control over the departments and more flexibility of resource allocation within an extremely constrained budget."
10.2307_3110245	1995	"What have been the recent trends in numbers of political appointees in the federal government, and what has been the impact on political/career relationships? This article presents data showing that after a substantial increase during the Carter and Reagan administrations, the number of political appointees leveled off during the Bush administration. Evidence is presented showing basic differences between Reagan and Bush in the targeting of political appointees to specific agencies. Reagan appears to have targeted specific agencies for politicization based on political considerations whereas indications are that Bush was more concerned with simply rewarding campaign workers. Results from various government surveys show that the Bush administration was characterized by generally high levels of job satisfaction among top careerists. Finally, some early data on political appointments in the Clinton administration are examined."
10.2307_976522	1994	"How does Total Quality Management (TQM) stand up to systematic and rigorous evaluation? With the private sector increasingly disenchanted with TQM, authors Laura A. Wilson and Robert F. Durant claim that one of the more critical tasks for those promoting, applying, undergoing, or studying TQM interventions in public agencies is to evaluate the results. The authors argue that TQM interventions and assessments must be more theory grounded and contingency based to advance our understanding of the approach's applicability, potential, and pitfalls in the public sector. They offer three theoretically driven evaluative frameworks and identify the conditions under which each can be profitably applied to both TQM interventions and future scholarly research on this topic. They conclude by suggesting how various contingency factors and expectations culled from existing literature can inform each of the three evaluative models."
10.2307_976465	1992	"Can the work of policy analysts and program evaluators be made more relevant to the citizenry? Peter deLeon believes it is possible to reduce the isolation of analysts, who often produce assessments and recommendations that seem out of touch with the needs and wants of the public they serve. He calls for a ""participatory policy analysis"" that would open the process to greater input and involvement in situations where such an approach is feasible. While admitting that such democratization is more difficult in practice than in concept, deLeon notes that the legitimacy of the policy analyst's endeavor is what is at stake."
10.2307_977107	1991	"What factors help determine the financial performance of the Amtrak system? Professor Nice examines four possible explanations for the variation in Amtrak's financial performance between 1972 and 1989, including the agency's investment in equipment, the agency's ""life-cycle"" development, the pricing of Amtrak services, and the system's traffic volume. Nice's analysis indicates that higher traffic volume and pricing factors leading to greater economies of scale are associated with improved financial performance, as is the agency's greater ability to enhance the appeal of Amtrak services. He also reports a ""somewhat troubling finding"" that financial performance is enriched by low levels of investment in new equipment. While creating such short-term benefits, there are long-term costs to relying on an aging fleet and infrastructure."
10.2307_976155	1985	"Economic development initiatives have become common in recent years as states and localities have sought to attract jobs and economic activity. Despite the popularity of industrial location incentives among state and local policy makers, it is not clear that current policies are either efficient or effective. Acknowledging that states and localities are not likely to cease offering economic development incentives, an alternative approach is presented here. By first determining how they fare in terms of uncontrollable business costs (transportation, energy, and labor costs), states and localities can better focus their use of industrial location incentives."
10.2307_977341	1989	"Both bureaucratic and democratic ideals are essential elements of the public administration ethos, yet these two sets of ideals have not been effectively integrated in an ethic of public administration. Ethics has been approached primarily from a rule-oriented bureaucratic perspective that gives little guidance to administrators who wish to promote democratic ideals and function ethically in an increasingly political administrative role. This article suggests that ethics can be approached, instead, from a political perspective that recognizes public administrators as political authorities legitimated and constrained by the same belief system that legitimates and constrains elected and judicial officials. Approaching ethics from a political perspective permits administrators to pursue democratic ideals by exercising political judgment and participating in the political process of policy making. At the same time, a political ethic of public administration establishes constraints on such administrative activity through a recognition that bureaucratic values are essential to the legitimacy of public administration. Therefore, active involvement in the political environment is ethical only in the pursuit of democratic values and only if it does not undermine the legitimacy of public administration."
10.2307_3109932	1985	"This article reports results of survey research on the effects of feedback on governmental employees' job attitudes and on their perceptions of evaluation and reward systems. Subjects studied were from wave one of the National Longitudinal Study of Political Science, Public Administration and Public Affairs Program graduates. This research indicates that inadequate feedback impacts behavior negatively. Also, professional values and attitudes are stunted in low feedback work environments."
10.2307_977076	1990	"The role and acceptance of public administration have declined precipitously since World War Two. Three major challenges have arisen to imperil the discipline: implementation, which has focused on the performance of public programs; public management, which has concentrated on the behavior of top agency officials; and rational choice, which has attempted to apply market-oriented theory to the behavior of bureaucratic officials. All of these challenges have left important questions unanswered. For public administration to regain its role and promise, it must develop a new self awareness, based in part on the rediscovery of agencies as important actors in their own right and in part on systematic comparison of different forms of administrative activity."
10.2307_977296	1990	"In his first year in office President Bush established his Administration as one of consolidation. The policy directions of the Reagan Administration were reinforced, but not extended; the major trends in the conduct of the presidency were moderated, but not reversed. The White House staff was not as dominant as it had been in recent administrations, Cabinet secretaries had more leeway, and political appointments were not as tightly controlled by the Office of Presidential Personnel. Despite the Tower nomination, the President demonstrated a willingness to bargain and compromise with Congress; though neither the President nor Congress showed a willingness to confront the deficit issue. In his first year President Bush was successful in his conduct of the presidency, but failure to attempt to deal with the deficit jeopardized the future of the U. S. economy and long-term security."
10.2307_975661	1984	"Almost 50 years after the Robert Hutchins-William Mosher debate about the contribution of research to knowledge about the field, research methodology in public administration remains weak and fragmented. Considerable uncertainty exists regarding the criteria that public administration research should meet, and this uncertainty is being transmitted to doctoral students entering the field. Data from doctoral dissertation research suggests that the lack of methodological progress is due to inadequate standards among leading university programs in public administration as well as to the nature of the field itself. Public administration has not come to grips with basic questions of research that should be settled in a mature field of study."
10.2307_976471	1992	"What must be done to improve our knowledge of American county government? In this article, eleven scholars provide a collective assessment of the literature on county government as well as an overview of research on that topic since the turn of the century. They offer a county government research agency for the 1990s that focuses on: the relationship between structure and government performance; the role of leadership and professional management; service delivery, administrative responsiveness and equity; county responsiveness to changing environmental conditions; county governments as democratic institutions; and the role of counties in the American federal system."
10.2307_976944	1991	"What happens in organizations during interim administrations? To answer that and related questions, Katherine Farquhar studied forty-three Legal Service Corporation agencies that went through executive director changes between 1985 and 1989. Among other findings, Farquhar found that attitudes toward the departing director tended to be negative. There was considerable staff interest and involvement in executive search processes, although staff assessment of the search itself was somewhat mixed. The administrations of ""acting"" directors were generally well received, although many were characterized as ""stressful."" The fact that the acting administrator was a candidate for the executive position did have some impact on staff attitudes as well. Finally, Farquhar found that transitions to a new director typically went smoothly and were generally unaffected by what took place in the interim. In breaking new ground with this study of transitions, Farquhar suggests a number of questions and hypotheses that should be explored in future research and concludes with a call for greater attention by new agency executives to the dynamics and impacts of interim administrations."
10.2307_3110410	1984	"Since 1973, energy agencies have used demonstration projects extensively as programmatic vehicles for enhancing the commercial prospects of new forms of energy. These projects are significant both in the high federal investment in their construction and in the variety of energy sources where they are used. Demonstration projects have modeled solar electricity, energy conservation devices, synthetic fuels, wind, ocean, and hydroelectric systems, nuclear breeder technology and other innovations. Many of these demonstrations have proved to be disappointments. This paper argues that difficulties associated with demonstrations have their origins in program complexity, and examines this complexity in terms of two factors: the technical/economic unknowns which particular projects seek to address, and the public/private arrangement which the programs use in definition and implementation."
10.2307_976414	1991	"What is the ""textbook"" image of public administration offered to college undergraduates in basic American government courses? Beverly Cigler and Heidi Neiswender survey relevant chapters in 18 college textbooks published between 1980 and 1991. Their findings indicate that there are significant shortcomings in how public administration is presented, with many authors relying on narrow perspectives and popular myths. Focusing on the national bureaucracy and emphasizing presidential models that stress the need to control bureaucratic behavior, most of these textbooks fail to cite many of the field's major contributors or to consider the critical issues facing the public service profession. Cigler and Neiswender call for both practitioners and academics to become more aware of-and responsive to-how the field is being depicted."
10.2307_976677	1994	"How does dissertation research in public administration compare with cognate fields in terms of method and quality? Guy B. Adams and Jay D. White compare the dissertation research from 1992 in public administration, criminology, management, planning, social work and women's studies. Comparative findings are presented on methods used, on the general characteristic of the dissertations, and on quality. The lack of theoretical research, or even theoretically-informed research, and the widespread presence of ""mindless empiricism"" across all six of the fields are major findings. The special features of public administration doctoral research, including ""practice research"" and ""foreign focus"" dissertations, along with the widespread use of the case study method, are discussed. Adams and White conclude that what should be done to improve the contribution of doctoral research to the field is to improve-dramatically-the quality of all types of dissertation research."
10.2307_975575	1986	"This paper presents a new type of data that needs to be collected and placed in organizational data base management systems. Special event data describe structural changes and interruptions in the time series patterns of an organization's performance measures. These data serve as an institutional memory for certain kinds of knowledge that are essential for explanation, evaluation, and forecasting of activities associated with tactical and strategic decision making."
10.2307_976749	1991	"Are there feasible means for measuring the potential benefits of alternative environmental protection efforts? That is a question facing environmental management professionals, and in this research note James L. Regens offers a possible answer: the contingent-valuation (CV) method. Applying survey research techniques to measure the public's willingness to pay for a program, the CV approach has been used in a variety of contexts. Regens illustrates the utility of the approach in a case involving proposals to deal with pollution of Norway's Kritiansand Fjord. His analysis covers both the survey instrument and the various techniques used to control for biasing factors. As an instrument for calculating potential program benefits, the CV approach might prove useful in dealing with a wide range of envrionmental management situations."
10.2307_975780	1986	"State and local governments did not anticipate the decision of the Garcia case, which reinstated the Fair Labor Standards Act provisions on wages and hours as applicable to the public sector. Local governments used networking, principally through public interest organizations, to intervene in the case to find out what regulations were made applicable to them, and to lobby successfully for essential amendments to FLSA. They used interdepartmental committees extensively to adapt to the required changes and were determined to retain as much participatory management as the Act allowed."
10.2307_976807	1992	"It is possible to evaluate the costs of alternative staffing strategies for public services? Using municipal fire departments in five New York State communities, Jeffrey L. Brudney and William D. Duncombe provide an example of such an assessment by comparing the costs of paid, volunteer, and mixed staffing. They take special note of costs associated with the recruitment, training, and management of volunteers, factors which offset assumed salary savings. At a certain level of costs (more than $800 per volunteer in the case of municipal fire departments), the use of volunteers should be reconsidered. The methodology used in this study can have utility in other public service delivery areas."
10.2307_975314	1987	"The Nominal Group Technique (NGT) and other structured decision-making methods are being used increasingly for public planning and decision making, in part because of claims that these methods offer more egalitarian participation than is found in conventional, interacting groups. Some questions exist, however, about group members' perceptions of their participation and their acceptance of the final choice. Case studies are analyzed, and an exercise with public administration students is reported here which suggests that perceived levels of participation are higher in interacting than in nominal groups. Assumptions about politics behind NGT and related methods are also explored."
10.2307_975664	1984	"This article provides an overview of how one local government organization, the city of Long Beach, California, addressed the problems associated with implementing an automated office system, their current status in this implementation, and their future plans."
10.2307_3110127	1993	"What would be the benefits of replacing the federal government's cash basis budgeting approach with an accrual accounting system? F. Stevens Redburn contends that such a shift would improve budgeting for federal insurance programs. Accrual accounting records incomes and outlays when they are earned or incurred, unlike the cash basis method which tracks the government's cash transactions and debts. Redburn argues that this seemingly technical change would have significant political and policy implications by modifying how we assess the ongoing costs of various programs. He illustrates how accrual accounting and cash basis budgeting lead to different understandings of problems by focusing on the federal deposit insurance program's recent history."
10.2307_976232	1986	"The research reported here compares initiation of care by Medicare-eligible cancer patients receiving services from (1) an HMO, (2) the fee-for-service system with copayment, and (3) the fee-for-service system without copayment. According to a multiple regression analysis controlling for a variety of disease and social background variables, those treated in the HMO or making copayments encountered significantly longer time lags between diagnosis and the commencement of treatment than those receiving fully insured fee-for-service care. Persons reporting copayment tended to have their cancers detected at an earlier stage than those not reporting copayment, an observation explainable in terms of insurance coverage available to Medicare beneficiaries and the resources required for early detection of malignancies. These findings raise issues about possible impacts of recent cost-containment proposals on the quality of care received by Medicare beneficiaries with limited resources and progressive, life-threatening illnesses."
10.2307_976830	1995	"What is the importance of humor in public administration? Dean Yarwood examines the sources, types, and consequences of humor in administration. He suggests that much administrative humor comes from incongruity-from contrasting the naturalness and ease of traditional institutions with the forced, formal character of bureaucracy. Social scientists from a variety of disciplines have carried out empirical studies of humor in organizations. They conclude that humor has important consequences for hierarchy and for the social dynamics of organizations. Another source for understanding humor in organizations is creative literature. Here, forms of humor abound that are not emphasized in the social science literature. The author concludes that the study of organizational humor ought to be of interest to both public managers and scholars because it is part of the serious business of organizations."
10.2307_976477	1992	"Did the 1990 Augustine Committee Report on the future of the space program deal effectively with the problems facing NASA? Although generally favorable in their assessment of the Committee's work, the authors in this symposium provide critiques of the Augustine Report from a variety of public administration perspectives. Jay Shafritz considers how the Committee approached issues dealing with the civilian space program's human resource needs Howard McCurdy provides critical insight into the ""organizational culture"" approach used by the Committee, while Arthur Levine (the symposium editor) focuses on how the Committee handled issues related to the organizational structure of NASA and the space program. Henry Lambright draws attention to the need for greater presidential leadership, another issue not effectively addressed in the Augustine Report. Finally, John Logsdon offers comments regarding the committee's lack of sufficient attention to the international dimensions of the civilian space program."
10.2307_975438	1986	"This article is a response to the critique of research in public administration by Robert Cleary and Howard McCurdy, published in PAR in 1984. It outlines an alternative theory of knowledge based on positive, interpretive, and critical modes of research. This theory provides a legitimate place for the descriptions and critiques that Clearly and McCurdy find lacking in contributing to the growth of knowledge in public administration. This article also shows how these modes of research are based in administrative experience and are related to recent developments in the postempiricist philosophy of science."
10.2307_975444	1986	"This study examines Deborah Kolb's proposition that the tactics employed by state mediators are different from the tactics employed by federal mediators. According to Kolb, state mediators, adopting the more aggressive style, attempt to strike deals with the parties; federal mediators, adopting the more passive style, attempt to orchestrate agreements. Tactics of 228 state mediators were compared to the tactics of 61 federal mediators. Results showed no consistent relationship between mediator tactics and mediator type. Federal mediators were not necessarily hesitant and state mediators were not necessarily destined to be aggressive. When the disputes are subgrouped according to the intensity of the dispute, significant differences do emerge, but not in the direction proposed by Kolb's theory."
10.2307_977164	1992	"Has the value of a neutrally competent bureaucracy lost its relevance? Francis E. Rourke argues that the pressures for greater political responsiveness from the White House and Congress, coupled with the emergence of accessible outside expertise, threaten to diminish the importance of neutral competence significantly. He provides a historical overview of this trend and warns of its negative consequences."
10.2307_975899	1987	"In its decisions in the legislative veto case in 1983 and the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings case in 1986, the Supreme Court presented a highly formalistic model of the separation of powers doctrine. The two decisions raise fundamental questions about the ability of Congress to supervise executive officers (short of passing another public law) and the legal status of the General Accounting Office, the independent regulatory agencies, the Federal Reserve Board, and the Archivist of the United States. Some leading members of the Reagan Administration are relying on these decisions to advocate that all executive and administrative functions should be placed directly under the control of the President. This article reviews many of the precedents over the past two centuries that contradict this hierarchical model of the executive branch and the presidency. The separation doctrine allows for a substantial amount of overlapping and redundancy in order to maintain effective checks on political abuses."
10.2307_976990	1988	"A large increase in the number of federal employees aged 35 to 44 raises questions about what effect this employment bulge is having on the career prospects of federal employees. Comparison of personnel records for 1976 and 1986 indicates that most employees in 1986 were doing as well as or better than employees of the same age in 1976. Men aged 25 to 39, however, held lower grades than men of the same age a decade before. Women showed progress at all age levels, but still lagged behind men. The baby boom may also have affected turnover rates and the likelihood of holding supervisory authority."
10.2307_975469	1987	"The historical origins of the American hostility to public organizations are based on the belief that something is inherently anti-democratic in the growth of bureaucracy. These roots are found in the eighteenth century U. S. Constitution as well as the early nineteenth century Jacksonian Revolution. Woodrow Wilson's generation of reformers, however, was first to recognize and search for resolutions to the profound paradox, namely if democratic government was to survive in a technological age, it would require more of the methods of bureaucracy. That paradox has haunted Americans ever since and has become an especially acute dilemma in the twentieth century. The embedding of the conflict between mass democracy and elite professionalism in the American political structure is what really shapes the peculiar American meaning of bureaucracy and American attitudes toward it in the 1980s. This conflict also engenders both administrative inefficiency and political irresponsibility."
10.2307_3110393	1992	"Can agencies adapt the hybrid planning and budgeting systems created during the 1960s and 1970s to today's needs for cost efficiency and congressional accountability? Using the case of the National Forest System, Al Sample shows that agency efforts to improve the integration of planning and budgetary processes can accomplish both objectives. Providing a description of the U.S. Forest Service's efforts, Sample calls for congressional actions that will promote cost efficiency and accountability."
10.2307_3135019	1985	"Like other state and federal courts, the caseload of the Supreme Court has greatly increased over the last few decades. This article examines the growth in the court's docket and alternative ways of managing the increased workload. Current proposals are considered in light of past jurisdictional changes and recent organizational and procedural innovations within the court. As the caseload continues to grow, the article concludes, some combination of jurisdictional, organizational, and procedural responses will prove necessary, along with the justices' own exercise of self-restraint in granting cases and writing opinions."
10.2307_976468	1992	"How effective are government policies in promoting the diffusion of information technology? Kenneth Kraemer, Vijay Gurbaxani, and John Leslie King studied the impact of industrial policies in nine Asia-Pacific nations and found that such efforts did not have the significant direct effects on the diffusion of computer technology that might have been expected. While some government fiscal and trade policies did facilitate increases in computing expenditures, the authors found that the level of economic development was a more important predictor. Whatever policies are adopted should take into consideration the status of the country's economy."
10.2307_976495	1994	"Why should the criminal justice system be so interested in HIV? Richard J. Koehler has determined that a substantial percentage of New York City inmates surveyed has tested positive for HIV. Tuberculosis infection can be a death sentence for people who are immuno-compromised by HIV. Jails are an ideal setting for the spread of both tuberculosis disease and HIV. The author argues that new policy initiatives are necessary to reduce the danger of exposure to TB by HIV infected inmates. These initiatives should be pursued because they make sense both medically and fiscally. The author also argues that if such initiatives are not taken voluntarily, more costly policy changes will be forced by the courts."
10.2307_977123	1995	"Will public administration ever resolve the conundrum presented by the politics/administration dichotomy? Are politics and administration separate functions or is some other set of criteria more useful in explaining the differences between the two activities? James E. Skok suggests fusing the policy issue network and the policy cycle literatures into a new structural/functional framework for public administration. He argues that: (1) the lingering influence of Wilson's functional dichotomy overemphasizes function and misses the structural dimension of public administration; (2) public administration and politics are not separate functions as Wilson suggested; however, they are activities which occur within separate structures; and (3) a more accurate view of the contribution public administration makes to the public-policy process will result if scholars and practitioners adopt the structural/functional framework suggested."
10.2307_975445	1986	"Many regulatory reforms are considered unworkable partly because agencies do not have sufficiently sophisticated management and enforcement information systems. Organizational and political incentives do not encourage improvement in such systems for several reasons. This article discusses how the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation significantly improved its regulatory management system as it switched from general revenues and grants to regulatory fees as a means of funding some of its key regulatory programs. The case clarifies some of the major administrative problems that government faces in shifting to fees, taxes, or other charges as an alternative to ""command and control"" regulation."
10.2307_977005	1989	"The federal budgetary process, of course, shapes the budget. However, to a degree not well appreciated, the structure of the budget shapes the process. Since World War II, the budget's structure has evolved from a politics of expansion, with growing discretionary programs and relatively stable politics, to a politics of protection, characterized by rapid growth of transfer programs and much less stable politics. This evolution has had a profound effect on budgetary politics: conflict has increased while some claims on the budget have gained greater power over others. The change, in turn, raises important questions of equity and accountability in the budgetary process."
10.2307_976923	1992	"What are the responsibilities of government ethics officials? Dennis Thompson argues that such officials need to do more than oversee the paperwork associated with ethics legislation and the enforcement of specific standards and rules. They also have an ""educational responsibility"" in reminding public officials of their role in American democracy. Carrying out this ""education in democracy"" function is difficult, however, because of three paradoxes or misconceptions that plague the work of ethics officials. These include misconceptions surrounding the relative importance of ethical issues, the conflict between public and private ethical behavior, and the importance of appearances. Thompson discusses each of these paradoxes and the need to get beyond them. The major role for ethics officials, he concludes, is involvement in a continuous, positive, and visible effort to educate government employees about their democratic responsibilities."
10.2307_3110343	1995	"What can the field of public administration learn from a re-examination of its past that acknowledges the important role of women reformers? Camilla Stivers argues that, in contrast to existing accounts, the development of thinking about the administrative state needs to be understood not only in terms of the efforts of ""bureau men"" interested in making administrative methods more efficient but also of ""settlement women"" who sought and won the expansion of governmental responsibility for social ills. By seeing the field of public administration as an intellectual enterprise that encompasses both procedural and substantive concerns, a reconstructed history may raise awareness of the policy interests apparently procedural actions can serve. A ""usable past"" for public administration may also deepen our understanding of the substantive implications that lie beneath continued calls for procedural reform, such as ""reinventing government."""
10.2307_976870	1990	"In 1968 a theory of social equity was developed and put forward as the ""third pillar"" for public administration, with the same status as economy and efficiency as values or principles to which public administration should adhere. Considerable progress has been made in social equity in the past 20 years. Theoretically, the works of Rawls and Rae and associates provide a language and a road map for understanding the complexity of the subject. The courts were especially supportive of principles of social equity in the later years of Chief Justice Earl Warren and during the years of Chief Justice Warren Burger. The present period, marked by the leadership of William Rehnquist, evidences a significant drawing back from the earlier commitment to equity. The decisions of state courts, based upon state constitutions and the common law, hold considerable promise for advancing social equity principles. Scholarly research demonstrates the belief of the American people in fairness, justice, and equality and their recognition of the complexity of the subject and their ambivalence toward competing claims for equality. Research on public administration finds that bureaucratic decision rules and the processes of policy implementation tend to favor principles of social equity."
10.2307_976803	1992	"What are the leadership roles and relationships of mayors and managers in council-manager cities? David R. Morgan and Sheilah S. Watson use data from a 1987 International City Management Association survey to examine the powers of both types of officials as well as their reported interactions. Under council-manager government, mayoral leadership is more likely to stress the informal sources of power of the office holder. Comparing managers in cities of different size, Morgan and Watson find those working in larger municipalities typically had less power than their smaller city peers. Turning to mayor-manager relationships, the authors find them to be close in most council-manager jurisdictions, with managers playing the dominant role in smaller cities while the mayors seemed dominant in larger ones. The authors discuss the implications of these findings, especially the need for larger cities to reassess the formal power of their mayoralty given the complex challenges facing urban areas."
10.2307_976920	1992	"What role should public administration play in government efforts to address the consumption-investment imbalance plaguing America today? James Carroll offers suggestions centered on the need ""to reinvent the Hamiltonian system and apply it to the global order of the twenty-first century."" Reviewing the challenging trends that have shaped the current ""imbalance"" crisis, Carroll examines their implications and considers how public administration can deal with them through analytic, managerial, and strategic efforts that give direction to public policy and influence private sector behavior. Establishing reinvestment is a central priority, as are developing innovative ""investment strategies and accounts"" as alternatives to current service delivery approaches, extending the time horizon of decision making, and keeping ""public administration as a field of study open and responsive"" to these and other challenges."
10.2307_975888	1987	"This article considers the issue of mandated local government implementation of national policy in the context of broad policy changes and reduction or elimination of available national resources. Specifically, the article addresses this issue using the results of a survey of 16 municipalities across the United States which have privatized or have considered the privatization of wastewater treatment works as one way of implementing national clean water policy. The policy requires compliance with national standards by 1988 with or without national funding. The conclusion is that privatization evolved in the absence of coherent national policy as a viable option for those municipalities which needed increased water treatment capability due to population or industrial expansion and had the innovative managerial and institutional strengths to overcome resistance to the attendant political and economic risks."
10.2307_977043	1996	"What is the purpose of doctoral education and research in public administration? Many might assume its purpose to be the development of knowledge and theory for the field, as well as the preparation of the field's professoriate. White, Adams, and Forrester examine here the publication records of eight classes of doctorate recipients in public administration and conclude that doctoral education and research is only making a minimal contribution to knowledge and theory development in the field. The purpose of the public administration doctorate thus appears to be conflicted."
10.2307_976783	1990	"Public management theory generally assumes that public and private organizations' decisions and decision processes differ. However, surprisingly little research has identified specific, empirically-derived differences and similarities. Seeking to fill this gap between research and theory, this study examines the influence of publicness on types of strategic decisions encountered by managers. Two different concepts of publicness are examined, one based on organizations' legal status or ownership, the other a dimensional concept whereby organizations can be more or less public depending on the degree of external political control of their resources and activities. Drawing upon data from a mail survey of 210 upper managers in 39 organizations, the analysis indicates that (1) publicness has a small influence on the types of strategic decisions addressed; (2) publicness is associated with greater decision participation but not smoothness; and (3) the ownership concept of publicness is important in accounting for differences in strategic decision making, but the dimensional publicness concept accounts for differences beyond those attributable to ownership alone."
10.2307_977122	1995	"What are the big questions that scholars of public management should be attempting-through their research-to answer? Robert D. Behn suggests three consciously prescriptive questions: (1) The micromanagement question asks how public managers can break the micromanagement cycle of procedural rules, which prevent public agencies from producing results, which leads to more procedural rules, which.... (2) The motivation question asks how public managers can motivate people to work energetically and intelligently towards achieving public purposes. (3) The measurement question asks how public managers can measure the achievements of their agencies in ways that help to increase those achievements. Moreover, Behn argues, if the study of public management is to become ""scientific,"" it needs to focus on these and other big questions."
10.2307_976805	1992	"What factors influence the adoption of budget reforms in big cities? Irene S. Rubin focuses attention on the adoption of new and innovative budget techniques in six major cities over the past two decades. Budget reform was common among all six cities, although the reformed systems evolved in different ways in each jurisdiction. Environmental threats were influential, but Rubin did not find a direct one-to-one link between such threats and the adoption of reform. Categorizing the cities by level of political reform, Rubin finds that the most-reformed jurisdictions were likely to adopt budget reforms more quickly than other cities, although the innovations eventually spread to those classified as intermediate- and least-reformed cities. The level of political reform also determined the motivation behind the adoption of new budgeting approaches, with the most-reformed governments demonstrating a willingness to try something new and the least-reformed jurisdictions embracing those innovations that would enhance control over departmental operations. Thus, budget reforms do have a widespread impact over time, and their adoption is not merely symbolic, but often a reflection of the need to deal with problems."
10.2307_976707	1993	"Can public administration benefit from recent developments in ""chaos"" theory? According to L. Douglas Kiel, the new science of nonlinear dynamics, or what is popularly called chaos theory, can be fruitfully applied to improve our understanding of complex public organizations. His study of work patterns in an Oklahoma state agency demonstrates the potential usefulness of nonlinear dynamics for both comprehending and managing events that might otherwise seem unmanageable."
10.2307_977173	1992	"Is performance monitoring in public programs feasible and worthwhile? Joseph S. Wholey and Harry P. Hatry argue that it is and support their thesis with examples from a range of national, state, and local governments. After addressing some of the barriers to effective performance monitoring, they call for actions that would increase its use at all levels of government."
10.2307_3110397	1992	"What are the primary obstacles to the development of a useful theory of democratic administration? Robert S. Kravchuk argues that American liberal thought is a major source of frustration to those who seek a theoretical base that integrates democratic and bureaucratic theory. Building on Benjamin Barber's distinction among three ""dispositions"" in American liberalism (i.e., minimalist, anarchist, and realist), Kravchuk contends that the tensions among these strands of liberalism generates a conflict between democratic and bureaucratic perspectives on governance and precludes an effective integration of the two. He contrasts this approach with one offered by David Rosenbloom, who argues that the constitutional separation of powers is the primary barrier to a unified theory of American public administration. Kravchuk believes that an awareness of the inherent problems posed by liberal thought can be used to establish some practical guidelines for American public administrators."
10.2307_975587	1987	"Those who develop innovative programs in state government quickly gain visibility within the affected policy community and career-enhancing job opportunities outside of state government. Before the programs can be tested and refined, many seize these opportunities thus weakening the capacity of state governments to implement the innovations. This phenomenon is examined by reviewing the experience in New Jersey with a complex scheme for reimbursing hospitals."
10.2307_975891	1987	"This article summarizes findings of a survey of nonmanagerial performance appraisal practices in large U. S. cities. It replicates and extends earlier research by Ammons and Rodriguez (1986) reported in this journal that examined upper management performance appraisal practices. Topics discussed include prevalence of formal evaluation systems, types of appraisal techniques used, objectives of evaluation efforts, and appraisal frequency, satisfaction, and time allocation. The impact of city size (i. e., number of municipal employees) and form of government on appraisal practices are also analyzed. Findings suggest that major differences exist between nonmanagerial and managerial performance appraisal practices."
10.2307_976801	1992	"What can public administrators learn from studying Sophocles' Antigone? A great deal, argues Frank Marini, who regards the ancient Greek play as a fruitful source of opportunities to reflect upon the ethical challenges facing modern public administrators. The play is often used in schools to generate discussions about civil disobedience and the implications of challenges to authority. Marini points to dilemmas facing other roles in Antigone, each facing issues from ethically ""right positions."" This is especially true of King Creon, who is challenged to meet his obligation to uphold and enforce the law despite family ties and personal considerations. In this and other ways, Antigone and other works are useful for highlighting and focusing discussions about the challenges of public ethics."
10.2307_976390	1989	"This article is about problems of adaptation of institutions from one western industrialized nation to another. It makes a distinction between organizational craft, which fosters adaptation, and organizational culture, which often inhibits it. Following Heady's suggestion, the concept of bureaucracy is used as a framework to compare the organizational culture of policing in the United States and in the Federal Republic of Germany in order to show why American police institutions were not adapted successfully in Germany. The organizations are compared in terms of both structural and behavioral elements, which are grouped into two models: one of rationalism (German) and one of empiricism (United States)."
10.2307_976903	1988	"This article reports the findings from a nationwide survey of MPA directors' perceptions of their programs' effectiveness. The survey explored the directors' general perceptions of their programs' effectiveness, perceptions of their programs' capacity to achieve 17 specific goals, and the characteristics of effective and ineffective MPA programs. The findings reflect most favorably on programs administered by schools of public affairs and administration and departments of public administration, but generally they indicate that school and departmental affiliations do not have a major impact on MPA program effectiveness. In contrast, NASPAA accreditation does seem to be related to MPA program effectiveness. The findings are discussed in relation to choosing a MPA program structure and NASPAA accreditation."
10.2307_3110414	1984	"Due to the difficulty of access to the People's Republic of China and its administrative systems, study of Chinese public administration has been meagre. The recent opening of China to professional and scholarly exchanges, however, now enables empirical research and comparative analysis. This article provides an initial overview of Chinese administrative values and practices. It describes some significant and unique managerial achievements in China, focusing on organization structure, personnel administration, managerial style, budgetary processes, and communication systems, and suggests considerable similarities with American public administration."
10.2307_3135028	1985	"Following a ruling by the Supreme Court in the mid-1970s, local and municipal governments increasingly confronted litigation over their violation of antitrust laws. City and municipal policy making was constrained, and intergovernmental tensions exacerbated. Two recent developments, however, will tend to reverse these trends. First, Congress enacted the Local Government Antitrust Act of 1984. Second, the Supreme Court handed down in 1985 two rulings, Town of Hallie v. City of Eau Claire and Southern Motor Carriers Rate Conference, Inc. v. United States, that radically change the direction of judicial review of local government antitrust litigation. These developments are examined in light of changes in intergovernmental relations and the inappropriateness of applying antitrust laws, designed to govern the private sector, to the public sector."
10.2307_976062	1987	"This paper examines the relationship between public expenditure and public services and the role of managers in altering the spending-service relationship. The empirical literature examining the hypothesis that a strong, positive correlation exists between spending levels and the volume and/or quality of services suggests that the strength of the correlation varies markedly from service to service. Other independent variables include the labor intensity of the service, organizational slack, and consumer behavior. That services reflect multiple determinants has implications for their management. The author offers an optimizing model or pure theory which expands the domain of public management beyond the traditional focus on altering public or ""producer"" behavior in the allocation and utilization of resources to include altering private or ""consumer"" behavior through marketing, regulation, and economic incentives."
10.2307_976902	1988	"The selection of students for graduate study is a significant concern in the field, yet little is known about admission practices in Master of Public Administration programs. Following a literature review, this study presents the results of a national survey of National Association of Schools of Public Affairs and Administration principal representatives. Four topic areas are analyzed: selection procedures, relative use of entrance criteria, the admissions decision-making process, and key policy issues. The paper concludes with a brief discussion of ways that selection procedures may be enhanced."
10.2307_3110341	1995	"To what extent are U.S. and Mexican mid-level public managers alike or different in their perceptions of public service? The passage of NAFTA has focused increased attention on the U.S.-Mexico border region, but little research has been carried out there. This study compares how differences in the backgrounds and recruitment patterns of U.S. (Anglo and Mexican-American) and Mexican public managers combine with different motivations for working in the public sector to influence the managers' orientations to public service, the years they will serve, what they like and dislike about their jobs, and whom they will recruit to succeed them. Mexican public managers are recruited based on extrinsic qualifications and have a more outer-oriented motivation. U.S. public managers are recruited based on intrinsic qualifications and have a more inner-oriented motivation. Problems caused by these differences are discussed along with other implications for the future of binational public projects along the U.S.-Mexico border."
10.2307_976674	1994	"Can TQM be implemented in government or can government be reinvented without appropriate information systems? Rebecca Hendrick argues that information systems are fundamental to the success of the innovative management approaches that are becoming popular at all levels of government. There is, however, little discussion in the current literature of the role of information systems in the management of government which can then be used to demonstrate the importance of information systems for innovative management. Hendrick addresses this problem by proposing a framework for an information infrastructure that connects crucial elements of innovative management, such as monitoring and evaluation, with different types of information systems, organizational functions, and decisions. She also discusses some implications of information system design, development, and application for government management and the field of public administration."
10.2307_975573	1986	"This article focuses on the effort to prepare Florida state government for the challenge of managing its information technology resources. The State of Florida recently made a multiyear commitment to establish a new statewide information technology resource policy and planning process. Successful implementation has demanded a sensitivity to the practices of public sector management, an understanding of technology, and an appreciation for the dynamics of organizational change. Achieving the goal of managing information and technology, a tremendous undertaking in the best of environments, has required significant investments in developing top management awareness, new strategic planning processes, special budget review processes, new organizational arrangements, and enhanced human resource skills. Once complete, the new policy and planning infrastructure will allow Florida to strategically shape the future direction of its investment in information technology resources and will allow state government to step up to the challenge of managing technological change."
10.2307_3110392	1992	"Is it possible to establish an effective strategic planning process in government agencies that operate under the constraints of the annual budget cycle? Gerald L. Barkdoll believes so, and offers the case of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as an example. Through a ""scoping initiative"" started in 1989, FDA officials began a 15-month process that led to a comprehensive and analytic vision of the agency's future and the forces that would shape it. The overall result was a modest enhancement of the budgeting process as well as a long-range strategic plan for the agency. Barkdoll reviews both the positive and negative lessons emerging from the FDA scoping initiative."
10.2307_976464	1992	"What must be done to bring the public administrations of Eastern European countries into the post-socialist era? This question is addressed by Eric Rice who offers a discussion of needed reforms based on several principles that stress greater governmental responsiveness and efficiency. Highlighting this agenda is the need to improve the policy making capacity of governments and a number of steps to change the general role of government in Eastern European societies. Among Rice's recommendations is the ""transformation"" of government into a ""servant"" of the people, greater decentralization, elimination of ""obsolete"" agencies and the redesign of basic government systems, and major reforms of both the public finance and civil service systems in each country."
10.2307_976524	1994	"How does the public's assessment of the quality of specific public services compare with its evaluation of private sector services? Using the results of a 1992 survey conducted in Georgia, Theodore H. Poister and Gary T. Henry found no systematic difference in attitudes toward public and private services among respondents. The conventional wisdom that public services are inherently inferior to those offered by the private sector does not necessarily pervade attitudes toward government."
10.2307_976426	1994	"How susccessful were Anglo-American reform efforts of the 1980s? The 1980s were a tumultuous decade for the bureaucracies in Anglo-American democratic countries. President Reagan and Prime Ministers Thatcher and Mulroney, in particular, came to office convinced that the bureaucracies of their countries were flawed-they were inefficient, resistant to change, and exerting too much influence over policy. B. Guys Peters and Donald J. Savoie look at the measures to reform the bureaucracies of these countries. The reforms sought to have public servants focus on management rather than policy, to import management techniques from the private sector, and to attenuate the influence of career officials over policy matters. The authors argue that the reforms attempted to address largely nonexistent problems and overlooked problems that now need urgent attention."
10.2307_976476	1992	"Did the 1990 Augustine Committee Report on the future of the space program deal effectively with the problems facing NASA? Although generally favorable in their assessment of the Committee's work, the authors in this symposium provide critiques of the Augustine Report from a variety of public administration perspectives. Jay Shafritz considers how the Committee approached issues dealing with the civilian space program's human resource needs Howard McCurdy provides critical insight into the ""organizational culture"" approach used by the Committee, while Arthur Levine (the symposium editor) focuses on how the Committee handled issues related to the organizational structure of NASA and the space program. Henry Lambright draws attention to the need for greater presidential leadership, another issue not effectively addressed in the Augustine Report. Finally, John Logsdon offers comments regarding the committee's lack of sufficient attention to the international dimensions of the civilian space program."
10.2307_976078	1984	"This paper introduces the notion of coprovision which is defined as the voluntary involvement of citizens in the provision (financing) of publicly provided goods and services or their close substitutes. This concept extends and modifies the coproduction concept to permit a more meaningful framework for examining the efficiency and equity effects of voluntary behavior of citizens, through time and money donations, in the delivery of public services. In addition, the conditions conducive to this alternative service delivery arrangement are explored."
10.2307_3110340	1995	"What is the role of fiction and imagination in public sector management? It is time to consider the possibility that fiction and other forms of imagination play a larger role in public administration than previously imagined. The author suggests that fiction and imagination influence the choice of public policies and the methods for carrying them out. Fiction and imagination may even affect the meaning of ""good"" administration. This article examines the role of fiction and imagination in creating the popular beliefs that underlie public administration. It illustrates this process through cases on the deinstitutionalization of the mentally ill, the creation of the U.S. space program, and the effort to reform public administration through the National Performance Review."
10.2307_976169	1986	"Despite an increase of citizen participation at local levels during the 1960s-70s, a growing literature indicates that these efforts are having only a limited impact. This article describes a novel form of citizen participation which as been developed by the Center for New Democratic Processes over the last decade. These ""Citizens Panels"" are modeled after the jury system and are similar to a process which has been developed independently by a team of West German social scientists. It is the belief of the authors that this process can overcome many of the deficiencies of other approaches to participation. Six criteria are suggested for a successful method of participation. These are applied to a project run throughout Minnesota in 1984, where 60 randomly selected individuals examined the impact of agriculture on water quality and made recommendations to project sponsors, including several state agencies. Although the project met some criteria better than others, the authors conclude that Citizens Panels have high potential for a variety of uses."
10.2307_3110050	1996	"How appropriate is market-failure theory for today's policy-making concerns? In recent years, concepts drawn from the theory of market failure have been increasingly influential in public administration and policy analysis. Ernest Sternberg contends that this reliance on microeconomic theory is often misleading and harmful because it fails to observe the integrity that characterizes many of the objects about which policy makers are concerned. He takes two kinds of objects as examples: ecosystems (a central concern of environmental policy) and emerging bodies of technological knowledge (a fundamental concern in industrial competitiveness policy). When policy makers fail to see that an ecosystem and a technological paradigm each have integral features, they can unwittingly contribute to environmental or industrial deterioration."
10.2307_976637	1991	"What factors determine the differences in Medicaid expenditures found among the states? In this note, three researchers use a model that focuses on economic, political, and administrative factors to answer that question. Using data from 47 states for the period 1977 to 1987, they find that economic factors (e. g., wealth of residents) have the greatest influence, while implementation factors (e. g., previous year's spending levels, level of government responsible for administration) have a significant impact. Least important were political factors. Buchanan and colleagues offer several suggestions based on these findings for controlling Medicaid expenditures, including a call for greater state-level management."
10.2307_976076	1984	"Over the past decade, a multidisciplinary rush to study policy implementation has ensued, with heightened interest of late in understanding the process in the regulatory arena. Despite the substantive policy breadth and the heuristic value of these efforts, a predictive theory of regulatory policy implementation has proven elusive. One reason for this might be that the conventional wisdom is premised inordinately on highly similar research designs that have paid scant attention to policy enforcement from the perspective of regulatory targets, and have eschewed systematic comparisons of dissimilar enforcement experiences. This study applies a decidedly different analytical approach by comparing and contrasting the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) highly dissimilar experiences during the 1970s as it sought to enforce SO<sub>2</sub> and thermal pollution regulations as they applied to the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA). When viewed from the perspective of TVA, the cases suggest major refinements to the conventional wisdom associated with three factors found to be powerful conditioners of implementation in prior research: extent of behavioral change required, complexity of joint action, and sociopolitical environment. The study also reveals the import of a ""noncompliance delay effect"" as a pervasive, even overriding conditioner of regulatory enforcement, and argues that additional research using comparative designs incorporating the perspective of regulatory targets seems necessary for a truly predictive theory of regulation to emerge."
10.2307_3110125	1993	"Is the ""managing behaviors and results"" (MBR) approach still a useful tool for performance appraisal and management? Gary B. Brumback, one of the approach's founders, argues that MBR remains effective, and he offers a further elaboration of the fundamental ideas behind it. He argues that early applications of MBR (as well as other reforms and experiments linked to the 1978 Civil Service Reform Act) were encumbered by burdensome rules and regulations. With a new round of reforms on the horizon, Brumback is hopeful that MBR and other flexible management approaches will prevail."
10.2307_977251	1996	"What was the value in changing ASPA's Code of Ethics? Until recently, the Code of Ethics of the American Society for Public Administration symbolized the confusion in the field rather than its insights. The fine content of the former code was lost in numerous, unequal categories and discursive language. The new code has five principles or decision-making sources upon which public administrators should draw. This article demonstrates how the five sources are prominently discussed in the literature and are useful for practitioners. Even more, the new code should provide an authoritative framework for the field. At an elementary level, the code prohibits egregiously unethical behavior. At a more sophisticated level, the code recognizes that the really tough administrative decisions occur when two or more of the legitimate decision-making sources compete. Thus the code is far more than a list of legalistic prohibitions. It is a powerful tool for decision analysis on the one hand and an aspirational call for excellence in the profession on the other."
10.2307_976309	1986	"Too often, local government planners are characterized as people who focus on complex, long-term concepts at the expense of working out solutions to near-term, real-life problems. Likewise, planning commissions are sometimes seen in outdated terms as obstacles to reasonable actions, functioning from positions which are removed from practical realities. To the contrary, successful planners and planning commissions today are characterized by innovative, dynamic, and risk-taking discipline: an orientation to responsible action."
10.2307_977231	1989	"Since the beginnings of this nation's history, it has relied heavily on citizen-soldiers for its defense. In the last few years, however, the reliability of the National Guard (originally the militia) has been called to question by the refusal of a few governors to allow their state forces to train in Central America. This article provides historical perspectives to the issue of control of the Guard by returning to the writings of the nation's founders and attempting to determine the original intent for what was then the militia. The primary reason for establishing the militia was to defend the nation, but states rights proponents unwittingly limited its effectiveness for over a century. Attempts by some governors today to stop the National Guard from participating in a nationally established training regimen have resurrected the arguments from previous centuries which again have attempted to reassert a stronger state role in the management of the Guard. Such actions could undermine the nation's defense."
10.2307_3109935	1985	"Psychological attributes of decision makers are not often studied because of difficulty of obtaining data from this elite group. The present case study is based on a survey which measured the rigidity and dogmatism attributes of decision makers who can influence the management of fishery resources in Hawaii's 200-mile fishery management zone. The openness-closedness profile for six classes of decision makers shows that agency administrators are at the most open end of the continuum and the fishing interests at the most closed end. Hence, it is suggested that the observed conflicts between these groups are attributable to the synoptic view of the former and the parochial view of the latter, behaviors which are related to their openness-closedness profile. Moreover, measurement of risk in decision making should probably not be indexed to availability of information, but to the individual's ability to process information."
10.2307_3109930	1985	"Administrative ethics assumes that individuals in organizations can make moral judgments and can be the objects of moral judgments. Two common views of administration-that administrators should either follow the policies of an organization or resign from office, and that administrators should not be held morally responsible for the wrongs of their organizations-deny these assumptions and would make administrative ethics impossible. By understanding how these views themselves are mistaken, we can see how administrative ethics is possible and what forms it should take."
10.2307_975577	1986	"A host of problems has limited the effectiveness of computers in public organizations. Some of these problems could be at least partially overcome through the appropriate use of technology. In particular, this paper examines the benefits of designing for an automated environment, adopting a real-time system, employing a database management system (DBMS), developing extended applications software that is DBMS-based, obtaining an operating system that is hardware-independent, configuring a distributed network, and considering a dedicated system. Additionally, the paper suggests that current data systems should be upgraded to become information systems, and, in time, to become knowledge systems."
10.2307_976845	1989	"Modern governments that try to influence economic and social conditions are said to encounter a paradox: the more they try, the more they may succeed, but the more interdependent and out of control they become. This article proposes a theoretical morphology for analyzing programmatic variables that directly produce social spending. Three gate variables are developed: the beneficiary population, program content, and financing rules. The analysis identifies the gatekeepers of each variable and assesses their capacity for control. It tests the morphology in cases of expansion of public social spending in the 1980s, including emergency shelters for homeless families in New York City."
10.2307_976310	1986	"Although many efforts have been made in the past decade to increase the utilization of evaluation, policy makers still find that evaluations contain much information which is irrelevant to their decisions. Equally distressing, decision makers often need certain types of research information which is seldom produced by evaluation activities. Drawing upon the perspective of the policy sciences and a cross-disciplinary background, the author presents an integrated model of information-producing research activities which feed into various parts of the decision-making process. This model incorporates evaluation, needs assessments, policy analysis, training and technical assistance, and implementation studies."
10.2307_976832	1995	"What do formal models of legislative/administrative interaction tell us? This article reviews the literature on the behavior of agencies and legislatures toward each other as developed through the construct of formal modeling. The emphasis is on the substantive findings of the models rather than the detailed methodology of their construction. Gill considers two general areas: models with a budgetary focus, and a sample of models with alternative perspectives."
10.2307_975889	1987	"Professional licensing boards occupy a central position in the policy process at the state level. Because of this, it is important to understand the influences on board decision making. This study examines three factors: public representation, economic resources, and size of board jurisdictions. The analysis shows that these variables affect different types of board actions. The size of the board's jurisdiction affects the quantity of decisions, while economic resources have a strong influence on the disciplinary nature of those actions. Public representation has no noticeable impact on board performance."
10.2307_977205	1996	"Do family-friendly policies make for a more satisfied federal work force? The influx of mothers into the work force has heightened the federal government's awareness of the need to help employees balance work and family responsibilities. The authors conducted ordinary least squares regression analyses using the 1991 Survey of Federal Employees to investigate how the use of family-friendly policies affects federal workers' satisfaction with their jobs and work/family balance. They found that satisfaction with work/family balance is a vital component of an employee's job satisfaction, and the use of policies such as on-site child care and flextime appear to help employees, particularly mothers, face the dual demands of work and family life better."
10.2307_3110048	1996	"Are Americans getting the most for their money in the race for global markets? Not by a long shot, especially when the role of U.S. trade officials is compared with our nation's major competitors in the industrialized world. The unproductive debate over ""industrial policy""-potato chips vs. computer chips-that occupied Congress and the White House during the presidencies of Ronald Reagan and George Bush left a vacuum in governance, as well as serious financial and technological setbacks for the electronics, semiconductor, aerospace, and robotics industries. The Gulf War, the FSX joint aircraft venture with Japan, and other crises involving national security and technological losses finally riveted public attention on the vitally important role of public managers in guaranteeing the nation's global competitiveness. Current budget crises, together with popular anti-government sentiment, threaten new policies and programs that seek to advance and preserve the nation's critical industries."
10.2307_977360	1993	"In our current efforts to ""reinvent"" government, are there models from the past that can be used to demonstrate the dynamic efficacy of a public agency thoroughly imbued with the notion of the common good? What are the end results, for the nation as well as the agency itself, when values and purpose are elevated above procedures and process? To what extent can (or should) the smallest ""cogs"" in the agency's hierarchy assume integral and indispensible roles in the agency's assigned policy mission? By examining one of the New Deal agencies, the Resettlement Administration, Louis Gawthrop raises these and other questions that are directly relevant to the issues being discussed today concerning professional public employees who have committed themselves to a life in the service of democracy. Gawthrop focuses his discussion on the work of Dorothea Lange whose government service covered one short decade, but whose imprint on the notion of public service was indelible. The author argues that Lange's proactive commitment to the common good found a congenial environment in the Resettlement Agency and its successor, the Farm Security Administration, both of which were designed and directed by Rexford Guy Tugwell. Under Tugwell, purpose was clearly elevated above process and democratic values were always given priority over operating procedures. Was the enterprise a success or a failure? According to Gawthrop, one cannot count the families it restored or the enemies it made, but in either case, the lessons gained from the RA/FSA social experiment should not be dismissed as quaint relics from our unsophisticated professional past."
10.2307_977277	1993	"How do municipal governments account for the ""hidden costs"" of public services? Charles Coe and Elizabethann O'Sullivan surveyed the chief financial officers of American cities for the answer, and their findings reflect the wide range of cost accounting tools used in such efforts. They conclude with a call for greater attention to indirect costing by professional associations as well as by MPA programs."
10.2307_976493	1994	"How do federal executives view their jobs and their futures in the 1990s? What are the values that guide their actions? Would they recommend a federal career to talented young people? In a replication of a study conducted in 1982, Barry Posner and Warren Schmidt find areas of both consistency and change. Their 1992 survey of 1,006 alumni of the Federal Executive Institute raises a number of issues about the future of agency management, especially in light of efforts to adapt to changing social, political, and economic environments."
10.2307_976907	1988	"Utilizing in-depth interviews with state administrators and a survey of state legislators in Georgia, the author compares the behavior of lobbyists for public agencies with the activities of lobbyists for private sector groups. Public lobbyists benefit from their status as insiders. However, like interest groups, some departments are more successful than others in the legislative process."
10.2307_975515	1988	"Budgeting is an adaptive process that adjusts to changes in political and economic conditions. The low economic growth of the late 1970s and early 1980s impelled various changes in the budgetary practices of industrialized democracies which had previously oriented their resource allocation processes to sustained growth. The adaptations discussed in this article include cutback budgeting, the reemphasis of cash budgeting, efforts to stimulate reallocations in resources, program evaluation, closer monitoring of budget execution, and the strengthening of financial management. The article concludes by discussing the lack of major budget innovations in recent years."
10.2307_3110034	1985	"Transformations in the environment of the United States governments are expanding and blurring accepted disciplinary boundaries in the study and teaching of public budgeting and posing problems in course construction and selection of materials. Greater complexity in the practice of budgeting and financial administration has meant overlapping of traditional distinctions in management, accounting, economics and politics approaches. A more politicized context has raised the issue of the political role of public budgeters and the appropriateness of including strategic and tactical elements in academic programs. As the objectives of budget systems have multiplied, it has become necessary to decide upon their relative emphasis and structure processes and institutions accordingly. Growing diversity of public organizations and their environments has brought into question the predominant focus on information in contemporary theory and presaged a broader and more comparative approach to budget design."
10.2307_975591	1987	"Public authorities are consciously established outside the normal framework of government to free them from certain restrictions and thus to enable them to concentrate on one function, or closely related functions, and produce expeditious results. Therefore, they must develop interrelationships of their own, both external and internal. Specialists on authorities, under the impetus of management studies, are beginning to examine their intraactions-those between the authority and its constituents. Of special concern in this regard, under retrenchment policies, are efforts within regional transportation authorities to reorganize to prevent further defections of suburban units in favor of local public bus agencies or privatized companies. Innovative reorganizations in the metropolitan areas of Chicago, Minneapolis-St. Paul, Los Angeles, New York, and Boston reveal the delicate balances required."
10.2307_975602	1988	"This article proposes an integrated systems approach to managing governmental organizations based on a Job Task Analysis (JTA) called Job Task Systems Management (JTSM). JTA is not merely a basis for the development of training, but also a foundation for all other aspects of the organization's management system. Accomplishment of JTA job tasks is in effect the outcome, comparable to profit in the private sector. It can be used to evaluate and to manage an organization. Because it is easier to describe and understand this concept through the use of an example, this article is based on an application of JTSM to the Federal Aviation Administration's (FAA) aviation safety inspection program called ""Project SAFE."""
10.2307_976445	1996	"Working in an organization whose culture is changing? Thinking about implementing TQM but are unsure of the barriers you will discover or the pressures it can impose on the organization? Have you heard the expression ""begin at the top"" associated with organizational change and wondered what it actually means in practice? This case study describes the efforts undertaken and lessons learned by the Texas Department of Mental Health and Mental Retardation as it began the transformation of its agency culture in keeping with a TQM model. Although there have been many successes over the past four years, these have been marked by a series of struggles that has roots in a mixture of uncertainty regarding the next step to take and in the need for the agency's senior managers to personally transform the way they go about their work. The author's experience has led to the realization that if the transformation of the agency culture is to occur, it must be preceded by this personal transformation. The struggle the author's agency encountered in making this personal transformation is the subject of this study."
10.2307_977124	1995	"How do local governments in China deal with environmental degradation? On the basis of organizational culture theory, the authors consider how three local governments in China deal with environmental degradation. Using China as a case study, the authors show the difficulties facing modern governments of mobilizing their field regulators to carry out effectively environmental protection work. The authors review China's environmental administration and discuss its key features. Based on the field work in three cities in China, the authors assess the interaction of several major factors including institutional strength and support, the task role and environmental worldview of regulators. The data verify the assumption that street-level regulators are unfavorably disposed in China's environmental management. Working in an unsupportive work constituency and pro-growth social environment, the findings lead the authors to conclude that measures to protect the environment in China, in fact, make inroads into the economic viability of investments."
10.2307_975522	1988	"This paper extends the recent work of James Perry and Kenneth Kraemer by examining research in public administration from 1940 through 1984 as reflected in articles published in the Public Administration Review. Trends in research approach, topical focus, author affiliations, and patterns of funding are reported. Implications for the future of public administration research are also suggested."
10.2307_976787	1990	"Distribution of the rewards and benefits of public employment is an issue of social equity because it advances individual opportunities for equality as well as collective opportunities for substantive political representation. This article examines the constructs of segmented and block equalities from Frederickson's Compound Theory of Social Equity in the context of the civil service systems of the United States and Sweden, two countries with differing policies and objectives for achieving social equity."
10.2307_975311	1987	"Practice and theory are seldom integrated in systematic and productive ways. Management education is one area that suffers from this problem, and it seems that much progress could be made by attending to this issue. This article describes the development and implementation of a theoretically organized, skill-based curriculum developed for practicing managers in New York State and delivered by 15 different colleges and universities across the state. This project, funded through a management-labor contract, is administered by one of the 15 schools. Discussed here are the conceptual framework used in developing the courses; the process used to select the specific skills and topics to be included in the curriculum; the generation, implementation, and initial evaluation of the curriculum; and the implications of this type of program on the future of management education and development."
10.2307_3110395	1992	"Is total quality management (TQM) useful for public sector organizations? James E. Swiss argues that the orthodox form of TQM expressed in the works of W. Edwards Deming and others will not work well in government agencies for a variety of reasons. Among other factors limiting the usefulness of orthodox TQM for public sector agencies is the stress on products rather than services, on well defined consumer groups, on inputs and processes rather than results, and on an organization culture with a single-minded preoccupation with quality. Swiss does, however, see more hope for a contribution if a limited ""reform TQM"" approach is adopted. Adopting major features of the more orthodox approach, reform TQM would emphasize client feedback, performance monitoring, continuous improvement, and worker participation."
10.2307_976846	1989	"This article presents the results of empirical research which examines traditional explanations of the increase in average grade of the United States General Schedule workforce from the early 1970s through 1987. Descriptive statistics are included, and a causal model which distinguishes between grade increases and grade ""inflation"" is developed. Previous empirical research has measured the impact of causal factors separately. Here, the relative and simultaneous impacts of three causal variables--changing technology and occupational mix, diminishing pay comparability, increased private sector contracting--are explored. These results demonstrate that occupational mix is by far the greatest contributor to the change in average grade and that private sector contracting has no significant impact. Declining pay comparability, a potential cause of grade inflation, has substantial but less impact on the grade structure of the General Schedule workforce."
10.2307_975437	1986	"In 1967 the Public Administration Review published an article on mixed scanning, less demanding than rationalist approaches and less conservative than incrementalism. About 50 articles and Ph. D. dissertations have been written on the subject since 1967. Mixed scanning has been operationalized so it is clearer now how to use it in decision making, computer programs, and research. It has been often evaluated as a prescriptive theory, not merely a descriptive one. Some attention has been paid to the proper structural positioning of various levels of scanning. Some empirical evidence in its favor has been advanced, but most of the research remains to be done."
10.2307_976705	1993	"How can strategic management be successfully applied in large, complex government agencies? Evan Kemp, Robert Funk, and Douglas Eadie offer a description of experiences with strategic management in the U. S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. Although a final assessment of their efforts is years away, they are pleased with the initial success of the process and highlight those factors which seemed important in the short run."
10.2307_976877	1990	"ASPA in its fiftieth decade, as at its birth, remains caught up in challenges. This commentary reflects on the adversity from which ASPA grew; its roots, particularly its grounding in the Society for the Advancement of Management; and challenges for the future. Five areas of overemphasis in the past and five other topics for more rewarding future work in public administration are identified. If ASPA broadens its sights, building on strong foundations of experience, it will grow in both numbers and influence. Those foundations are in the linkage between success of constitutional democracy and successful public administration."
10.2307_976900	1988	"This paper examines the Shakman decrees, a series of federal court rulings over nearly two decades which prohibited the firing or hiring of government employees for political reasons. The paper focuses on the impact of the decrees on personnel administration in the City of Chicago. The effect of this ""public law litigation"" suit on the Cook County Democratic Organization and, hence, on the politics of Chicago, is also explored. It is concluded that the Court-imposed reforms have greatly improved and modernized personnel administration in Chicago and that, together with other factors, they have fatally weakened the patronage army which allowed the machine to maintain its grip on the city."
10.2307_977148	1993	"How does an increasingly global environment affect the way we establish and implement policy? Rickert Althaus and Dean Yarwood examine domain overlap between the Department of Agriculture and the Department of State regarding international agricultural policy during the Carter administration. The authors focus on three decisions: PL 480 allocations to Egypt, Commodity Credit Corporation export credits to Poland, and the Soviet grain embargo. They discover that domain overlap is frequently a cause of interorganizational conflict. Interviews with federal officials provide evidence that, in the case of international agricultural policy during these years, relations between the departments seem to have been quite cooperative. The authors discuss some of the mechanisms, structures, and attitudes that contributed to that unanticipated result and suggest that participant interviews can contribute both to the confirmation and the enrichment of theory regarding interorganizational behavior."
10.2307_976921	1992	"What can contemporary political science contribute to the study of public management and the improvement of practitioner skills? Not much, argues David Weimer, who provides a critical assessment of the utility of the dominant intellectual approaches used by today's political scientists. One area where there is potential for a contribution is in work focused on the role of strategic thinking among top-level public officials. Political science approaches based on deductive models are particularly limited, for they are unable to treat management and skill as endogenous factors. Inductive models rooted in case studies might prove useful in the long term, but they fall far short of what is acceptable to a ""science"" of politics. Weimer sees some hope in efforts to more carefully define public management roles, but his overall assessment is that political science has little to offer those who seek insights into public-sector management."
10.2307_975355	1985	"The Reagan administration has pursued a supply-side management approach that is the logical correlate of supply-side economics. This approach has dominated decisions on budgeting and financial management, regulation, information policy, procurement, personnel, and program management. Supply-side management theory sprang from a public mood that had grown suspicious of process values and saw the federal government as an enterprise devoted to the goal of sustaining itself. Supply-side management has brought to the forefront a renewed emphasis on governmental performance, a potentially lasting legacy, but has failed in other ways."
10.2307_976496	1994	"Do conventional, ""best practice"" guidelines for first-line supervisors adequately prepare them for the diverse work force of the next century? Willa Bruce and Christine Reed contrast the complexities of new work and family roles with the simplicity of traditional theories of workplace supervision. These theories reflect a dominant underlying culture that questions the commitment or integrity of employees who are either married to co-workers or are the primary caregivers of young children. Initial research findings suggest that ""family-friendly"" benefits offer limited support to working parents and to dual-career couples, despite their growing numbers in the work force. The authors conclude that supervisory training needs to change to emphasize acceptance of diversity in the workplace."
10.2307_976706	1993	"Are there more insightful alternatives to the traditional methods of program evaluation? Marisa Kelly and Steven Maynard-Moody note the traditional reliance of evaluation research on methods rooted in a detached scientific positivism. Recently, a growing number of evaluation research analysts have used a post-positivist approach based on understanding agency operations from insiders' or stakeholders' perspectives. This calls for greater involvement by the analyst in facilitating discussions among insiders. The authors show how these new methods were used in a nationwide study of the Economic Development Districts Program."
10.2307_3109929	1985	"Patriotism, as the love of one's country, is an important but insufficient motivation for public servants in a democratic society. By contrasting the behavior of Danish bureaucrats with Nazi bureaucrats in World War II, a more adequate understanding of democratic patriotism can be obtained. It must be founded upon a knowledge of, and belief in, democratic values. But more is required, since public servants must guarantee those rights to others under all conditions. It requires the intentional inculcation, and practice of, benevolence-which is the extensive and non-instrumental love of others. We have termed this ""the patriotism of benevolence"" and argue that it must be the primary motivation of public servants in the United States."
10.2307_975903	1987	"Survey responses of 527 city managers, mayors, assistant managers, and mayoral assistants demonstrate the multidimensional nature of the work of municipal executives. Varying degrees of emphasis are placed on the ""management,"" ""policy,"" and ""political"" roles by respondents serving in different capacities, suggesting not only the importance of position within a given structure but also the relevance of reform government. Finally, perceptions of city managers regarding the relative importance of specified roles are contrasted with opinions of their counterparts of 20 years earlier (1965) to reveal a dramatic escalation in the perceived importance of the ""policy"" role of city managers."
10.2307_976388	1989	"This article examines the development of the movement toward accountability in public higher education and its implication for Master of Public Administration programs. It analyzes prior and existing efforts to insure and assess quality in MPA programs, including standards of the National Association of Schools of Public Affairs and Administration, NASPAA's accreditation process, reputational surveys, and studies of the research productivity of faculty. It analyzes the different forms that outcome assessment might take in public affairs education, describes different assessment techniques, and assesses their advantages and disadvantages."
10.2307_3110038	1985	"The Supreme Court's decision in Memphis v. Stotts prohibits a federal court from enjoining the operation of a bona fide seniority system that results in the layoff of minority fire fighters. The employees had been hired pursuant to a consent decree requiring the Memphis Fire Department to increase significantly its hiring and promotion of minorities. Besides limiting equity powers of a court to modify a consent decree to stop minority layoffs threatening to set back an affirmative action program, the decision indicates that Title VII may prohibit relief to actual victims of employment discrimination. This decision threatens to undermine the strong public policy favoring the settlement of employment discrimination complaints under Title VII."
10.2307_3110152	1985	"Local governments sell their bonds to underwriters through one of two methods of sale: direct negotiation or open competitive bidding. Although the objective in both cases is to secure the lowest interest rate, previous research has found that negotiation is the more costly method of sale. The implication is that the management team representing the issuer in negotiations lacks the skill to win interest rate concessions from underwriters. However, that research disregarded the previous experience of negotiating issuers. This analysis finds that, up to a point, interest rates decline as negotiating issuers' previous experience increases. It also finds that, when the previous market experience of negotiators is taken into account, the negotiated method compares favorably with competitive bidding. The implication is that the negotiating team is capable of winning concessions from underwriters justified by prevailing market conditions."
10.2307_976377	1996	"Can we afford to eliminate middle managers in local government? Douglas Morgan and colleagues argue that middle managers play distinctive roles as ""keepers of two functions"" that are essential to the health of our democratic polity: helping to define ""acceptable service"" and making the delivery of public services accountable. The authors contend that current efforts to eliminate layers of middle management through contracting out for services, privatizing, reinventing government, and other mechanisms to reshape the role of democratic governance need to be carefully informed and guided by a full understanding of the essential functions that middle managers play in maintaining the healthy functioning of our democratic order. They conclude that this stewardship role will become increasingly more important as national and state governments continue to decentralize the locus of responsibility for regulation and service delivery."
10.2307_976406	1991	"What factors should be taken into consideration when evaluating a public sector information system? Professors Newcomer and Caudle address this issue on several fronts, starting with factors to consider in the design of agency information systems and then focusing on specific indicators of success, technical operations, system support, services, personnel, access, and accountability. Finally, they pose seven issues that evaluators must address when approaching the challenge of assessing public sector information systems."
10.2307_3110060	1996	"While Norway, Sweden, and Denmark share many historic, political, and cultural features, their state systems and public administration exhibit important differences. Likewise, Nordic administrative sciences reflect a significant degree of ethnocentric diversity. Although as a whole, since the 1960s, Scandinavian academic public administration has witnessed rapid growth, an emphasis on local-regional government, and highly sophisticated scientific-empirical research, as opposed to professional training or narrow application of technical-legal methodologies."
10.2307_976380	1996	"What impediments frustrate efforts to transform former Soviet Bloc European countries into a new nation-state system? How have schools of public administration there sought to deal with challenges in building state institutions? What lessons for development administration and the broader field may be learned from their experiences? Obstacles to changes include four from the past: border strategies and multiculturalism; control through ""smokestack"" design; workplace ""social connectedness"" and reciprocity; and collapse of the central political apparatus. Two sets of external factors confound problems. Western development orthodoxy and policies based on faulty political and economic theories. Western devaluation of government during this historic era has contributed to major problems in the redesign of states in Central and Eastern Europe. Contrasting approaches to public administration education have been adopted in efforts to serve the needs of changing state systems."
10.2307_976347	1993	"To what extent have litigation costs affected municipal budgets? How often and to what degree does a jurisdiction have to amend its budget due to unanticipated legal costs? What factors and what types of cases have contributed most to rising litigation costs? What functional areas of the budget have been hardest hit? What has been the effect on a jurisdiction's insurance costs and bond ratings? What strategies have local governments adopted to reduce litigation costs? Susan A. MacManus and Patricia A. Turner surveyed attorneys serving as counsels to cities, counties, and special districts and found that litigation costs have indeed escalated significantly in recent years for a variety of reasons. These costs have had major impacts on local government budget outcomes and processes, thereby forcing local governments to search for legal cost containment mechanisms. They also uncovered a vicious cycle of governments settling cases just to save money, which, in turn, increases the number of cases (often frivolous) filed against a jurisdiction."
10.2307_3110399	1992	"What impact has anti-discrimination legislation had on the careers of disabled federal employees? Gregory B. Lewis and Cheryl Lynn Allee ask that question in light of the recent passage of the Americans with Disabilities Act (1990). Disabled federal employees have had such protection since passage of the 1973 Rehabilitation Act. Using an annual sample drawn from OPM's Central Personnel Data File between 1977 and 1989, the authors focused their analysis on hiring patterns, grade level assignments, and promotions. Lewis and Allee found that disabled federal employees ""made few gains in the federal work force except in their numbers."" While cautious in attributing these findings to discriminatory practices, the study's authors suggest that greater attention be paid to what happens to the career paths of disabled Americans."
10.2307_976523	1994	"What are the strategies used by federal inspectors general to facilitate improved government performance? Kathryn E. Newcomer surveyed IG officials about their efforts to assess government performance. While uncovering variations in individual agency strategies, Newcomer found similarities among IG officials regarding what they think they do and why they think they do it. Both auditors and evaluators, says Newcomer, believe they play an important role in improving their agencies' performance, and they take advantage of opportunities available to them whenever they arise."
10.2307_976301	1986	"The usefulness of much of the current discussion about privatization is impaired by a basic confusion about definitions and concepts. In particular, many observers fail to distinguish between the primary policy decision of government to provide a service and the secondary decision to produce a service. Either function or both may be ""turned over"" to private parties. In the latter case, the efficiency and effectiveness of government may be improved. In the former, the objective of social equity may be put seriously at risk."
10.2307_977254	1996	"How do perceptions, experience, attitudes, and communication behavior of local government employees affect the adoption of Geographic Information Systems (GIS) technology as an organizational innovation? Nedovic-Budic and Godschalk examine the largely unexplored process of GIS diffusion inside local governments in terms of the impact of human factors, internal organizational context, external organizational environment, and GIS management activities. Using a multiple-case study of four agencies within a North Carolina county government, the authors find that GIS diffusion is a very complex process. They conclude that perceived relative advantage, previous computer experience, exposure to the technology, and networking are the most significant determinants of employee willingness to use new GIS technology, while organizational and GIS management factors strongly influence GIS diffusion. The research findings have important implications for devising strategies for effective incorporation of GIS and other information system technologies in public organizations."
10.2307_976841	1989	"A category of organization referred to as the ""government-sponsored enterprise"" (GSE) poses a critical financial and accountability challenge to American political institutions. The largest and perhaps best known GSEs are the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac). GSEs have a legal status that deliberately straddles the public and private sectors. Although privately owned for profit, GSEs can expose the U. S. Treasury--and taxpayers--to massive financial liability. Federal oversight of GSEs is fragmented and generally ineffective, thereby leaving the public's interests subordinated to private interests. The authors argue that the first step toward imposing appropriate financial and political accountability is to enact a generic GSE management law which defines the attributes of GSEs, prescribes reporting and examination requirements, and imposes restrictions on financial risk taking. A new federal agency would be responsible for GSE regulatory oversight. This article reviews the problem of GSE financial accountability, and it suggests a solution that can reassert the distinctive legal and administrative characteristics of the public and private sectors."
10.2307_976731	1994	"Does a federal agency's mission influence how female employees are used? Gregory Lewis notes that federal agencies differ markedly on a variety of measures. The variation appears to arise, he postulates, primarily from differences in agency tasks, as represented by the occupational breakdown of their work forces. Agencies whose missions require many employees in traditionally female occupations employ more women and more higher-level women than agencies whose missions tip toward traditionally male jobs. Simple cross-agency comparisons of the status of women, and excessive focus on women's share of total employment, give misleading pictures of agency efforts and success in promoting equality. He examines measures that take occupational mix into account, that assess men's and women's distributions across grades, and that gauge progress toward equality in an effort to more accurately test agencies' affirmative action efforts."
10.2307_977109	1991	"How does conflict influence ""turnover"" among city management professionals? Reporting on data gathered in a study that follows the careers of 133 city managers in Florida since 1986, Gordon Whitaker and Ruth DeHoog offer a number of insights into that question. In contrast to other recent studies, they find conflict to be a frequent cause of turnover among those city managers who left their positions during the study period. The type of conflict involved made a difference-those situations involving policy or ""style"" disagreements between a manager and the city council were more likely to cause turnover than conflictual conditions emerging from disagreement among council factions. Whitaker and DeHoog found no significant relationship between the ""role orientation"" of city managers and turnover under conflictual circumstances. But other factors, such as electoral changes in council composition and opposition by a popularly elected mayor, are found meaningful. The authors conclude with a call for more concern for conflict and conflict-management skills among city management professionals and educators."
10.2307_976451	1996	"American federalism has experienced continuing centralizing tendencies in the political, judicial, and operational arenas since 1964. Three efforts to launch a devolutionary ""New Federalism"" have been mounted during this period: Nixon's, Reagan's, and the current tripartite campaigns of President Clinton, the House of Representatives, and the Senate. In both of the earlier endeavors, some devolving successes were experienced. Yet, contrary centripetal developments, notably in the judicial, political, and regulatory fields, also took place and two case studies in an ambiguous federalism resulted. The present deadlock between and among the three national political branches regarding the future of dozens of national policies and programs impacting state and local governments prevents any solid statement as to whether the New Federalism III will suffer the fate of its two predecessors. But a bet that it will would not be a foolish one."
10.2307_975357	1985	"Our nation's interest in ensuring adequate water supplies in an era of scarcity has recently highlighted water resource management as a highly salient, conflictual, and emotion-laden public policy issue. One significant component of the water management debate concerns the constitutionality of state laws banning or restricting the export of groundwater to other states. The analytical focus of this study is New Mexico's experience as it sought first to deny and later to place severe limits on the export of groundwater to the city of El Paso, Texas. The purpose of the study is twofold: first, to chronicle what can happen and why when state regulators seek to limit the access of nonresidents to their water supplies; and, second, to ascertain the implications of such disputes for water resource management. The analysis (1) reveals the need for expeditious congressional attention to this issue given the economic, environmental, and natural resource stakes involved for the nation; (2) suggests that a confluence of contextual factors might provide a ""policy window"" conducive to both state regulatory reform and adaptation of social assessment techniques geared to a broader representation of values in water resource management; and (3) highlights the administrative burdens placed on state officials trying to cope with growth management within the context of the ""Reagan Revolution."""
10.2307_975362	1985	"This article outlines the major components of a brain skill management program which holds the potential for insuring that input from all sources (i. e., left, right, and integrative) becomes a regular and reliable organizational routine when fully implemented. Case study examples of its use in the city of Phoenix, at the Federal Executive Institute, and in other governmental agencies are discussed to illustrate how such a program can be used to increase both individual and organizational productivity in the future. It is argued that learning to use this and other similar techniques may be a means by which the mind and the creative potential of employees can be tapped. This is one of the few remaining resources available to organizations that can still be expanded in the years ahead."
10.2307_975516	1988	"To relieve worsening congestion and to accommodate new growth, many municipalities and counties across the country are turning to the private sector to finance new highways and general road improvements. California has probably accumulated more experience with financing areawide road improvements through special assessments, impact fees, and negotiated exactions than any other state. This paper reviews California's experiences with formulating and administering these programs based on a recent survey of municipal and county officials. A variety of approaches are used to set fees and payment schedules, with most jurisdictions charging developers a flat fee based on the amount of traffic that their projects are expected to generate. In general, those in charge of administering these programs recommend using pre-established formulas and consistent standards, as opposed to ad hoc negotiations, to exact payments from developers."
10.2307_976470	1992	"What has been the impact of the emergence of public-sector labor relation systems on the legal structure and design of state civil service merit systems? Joel Douglas offers a systematic exploration of that issue through a content analysis of state laws related to both systems. His detailed analysis suggests the development of ""dual personnel systems"" (DPS) in many jurisdictions, and the lack of efforts to integrate the two contradictory systems. In most cases, labor relation systems have become the primary force in public-sector human resource management policies; but Douglas notes that civil service systems remain a factor often times generating problems. He concludes by noting that the two do not ""fit"" together. ""Living with dual personnel systems,"" he argues, ""is an option widely followed yet not recommended."""
10.2307_3109962	1985	"This article addresses the importance of economic and demographic assumptions in framing the public policy process. It examines functions of such assumptions as an important aspect of government and as a new challenge for public managers. Using Social Security as a case study, the article suggests that recent forecasts have been inaccurate for four basic reasons: (1) the social and economic environment, (2) technique, (3) assumption drag, and (4) politics. Nevertheless, the assumptions have been crucial at several key legislative turning points in recent Social Security reforms. The article reviews the impact of political pressure in three specific instances and suggests an emerging pattern in the use and misuse of assumptions. The article concludes with suggestions on how to address the importance of assumptions in the public policy process."
10.2307_976248	1988	"A nationwide survey provides a profile of newly promoted city managers. Responses from 177 managers who assumed top local government positions in 1986 reveal a variety of personal characteristics and working conditions. The study examines such factors as managers' reasons for career change, average salary increases, fringe benefits, and family backgrounds. Perceptions of city managers regarding spousal roles, average work week, and expected age of retirement are also presented. Finally, views on pre-service and in-service education and recommended backgrounds are discussed."
10.2307_3109968	1985	"A new tool to help individuals and organizations make better management development decisions is presented here. The Management Excellence Inventory (MEI) is a management strengths and needs assessment instrument developed by the U.S. Office of Personnel Management for use by federal agencies in their management development systems. It is based on a comprehensive, competencies-based model or framework of effective management. This model consists of broad functions and effectiveness characteristics common in varying degrees to management at all levels and across organizations. However, the MEI uses a process that tailors the model to reflect differences in individual positions and organizations. This feature, in conjunction with findings from research on non-federal managers, suggests that the MEI can be adapted for use in other organizational settings, particularly in state and local governments."
10.2307_976675	1994	"Will reducing bureaucracy improve education? According to Kevin B. Smith and Kenneth J. Meier, few ideas have swept the nation with such fervor as the proposal that if school systems would adopt public choice reforms student performance would improve. The authors reflect on Chubb and Moe's thesis calling for an elimination of bureaucracy and its harmful restraints. However, Smith and Meier use a precise measure of bureaucracy and find that bureaucracy is not related to three different measures of student performance. Their position is that bureaucracies develop because school systems need administrators and administrative capacity to function effectively. Reducing bureaucracy will impose administrative tasks on street-level personnel (teachers) and will likely impair their performance rather than improve it."
10.2307_976147	1985	"This paper relates New York City's experience since 1975, a period characterized by local economic and fiscal crisis and a gradual recovery from it, to four prevailing themes in the contemporary literature of cities and public administration. Drawing on analysis in the first five volumes of the Setting Municipal Priorities project, the authors suggest that: (1) urban economic decline is neither a continuous nor inevitable process, and that local government policy can play an important role in reversing such decline; (2) public officials have more ability to alter spending priorities than the incrementalist/decrementalist model of budgeting admits; (3) municipal government retrenchment, or the paring down of ""slack"" resources, promotes rather than impedes managerial innovation and improvement; (4) cuts in public expenditure do not necessarily translate into reductions in the level and quality of public services. From the authors' perspective, studies that emphasize the immutability of forces causing urban decline, the inability of public officials to control the allocation and improve the management of public resources, and the dependence of better services on more expenditure contribute to undue pessimism about the future of cities and their management."
10.2307_976067	1987	"A primary purpose of the Senior Executive Service (SES) was to improve federal government management. This article reports on an assessment of the impact of the SES on management through content analysis of SES performance standards in the Department of Labor. Analysis was conducted of 3,622 standards in 136 positions in Fiscal Year 1980 and 99 positions in Fiscal Year 1984-69 percent of all positions. It was found that with a single exception no significantly greater emphasis was placed on the 1978 Civil Service Reform Act (CSRA) goals in the fifth year of the program as compared to the first year. While significant differences were found between DOL agencies in the degree of attention to the CSRA goals, no significant increase in attention was found in any agency over the five-year period. Further, no significant decrease occurred in attention to evaluation of personal traits over this period."
10.2307_975592	1987	"With bureaucratic performance widely recognized as problematic yet critical to presidential objectives, and with executive-legislative stalemate almost routine, recent presidents have turned to the ""administrative presidency"" to energize and implement domestic policy. The Reagan Administration, however, has relied upon an administrative approach to executive leadership to an unparalleled degree in terms of its strategic significance, comprehensiveness, and philosophical zeal. This exploratory study chronicles three implementation experiences in New Mexico in order to enhance our appreciation of the process, politics, and efficacy of Reagan's use of the administrative presidency to reorient natural resources policy in the West. Analysis of these field experiences suggests (1) that the strategic and operational choices made by Reagan appointees were not always well linked, and thus jeopardized aspects of the President's policy agenda, and (2) that a more fruitful approach to executive leadership would effectively link the administrative presidency with a ""backward mapping"" implementation strategy."
10.2307_975781	1986	"This study focuses on whether creative administrative rulemaking and rule adjudication can take place in a bureaucratic setting characterized by broad allocations of discretionary authority coupled with highly technical, legislative and executive mandates, while avoiding capture or manipulation by powerful, expert-dominated clients. Using two criteria to measure procedural and substantive equity, our research evaluates the performance of the newly-created Federal Energy Administration during the post-embargo period between 1973 and 1976. Empirical evidence based on an analysis of the FEA's appeals and exemptions process indicates that procedural reforms may do more than merely provide a sense of legitimacy and fairness in the regulatory process. They may significantly influence the outputs and consequences of that process in ways not easily incorporated into synoptic frameworks."
10.2307_976825	1995	"What are local public administrators expected to do in an era of tax base decline, diminishing state and federal support, and intensified public demand for more and better services? Felice Perlmutter and Ram Cnaan argue that a policy of fund raising and development is one solution to this dilemma. The authors acknowledge that private support for public services is not a new idea or practice; however, an institutionalized policy of capital campaign and donation seeking from private sources on an ongoing basis to fund traditional public services is the essence of this new policy. Perlmutter and Cnaan provide us with a case study of the Department of Recreation in the city of Philadelphia which, through the proactive leadership of a new commissioner, took on the mission of establishing a development unit and annual fund campaign. The authors describe the background of the new policy, its formulation, and implementation. This policy, however, is not without risks, and Perlmutter and Cnaan detail some of these risks as a precaution for those wishing to hastily adopt the new policy."
10.2307_976833	1995	"Is there a barrier to communication between those that practice public administration in the criminal justice field and those that teach about public administration in the criminal justice field? Dean Caldwell and Ernest Dorling explore communication practices between practitioners and academicians by use of a survey. Survey responses indicate that there are differences in communication patterns between academicians and practitioners, but those differences disappear when education level and involvement in research are taken into account. Suggestions to help promote networking are given."
10.2307_977007	1989	"A study of enterprise fund transfers in South Carolina cities shows that municipally-owned electrical utilities result in increased spending on municipal services and a subsidization of the property tax by substituting utility fees from city customers and, more importantly, noncity customers for taxes. Moreover, cities with only water and sewer enterprise activities in some cases follow similar practices. A key factor in determining the amount of such transfers is the amount of control the city council has over the enterprise activites. The concepts of fiscal illusion and public avoidance are used to discuss the issues raised by interfund transfers, and a number of issues are identified which need further attention, such as accounting and auditing practices, revenue estimation, and management ethics."
10.2307_977079	1990	"As public involvement in public management has expanded in recent decades, questions have increasingly been raised about how public managers should approach this involvement. This article attempts to answer those questions using a theory borrowed from the literature on small-group decision making. According to the theory (Vroom and Yetton, 1973), the degree of group involvement desirable in making a decision varies depending on the relative needs for quality and acceptability in an eventual decision. The premise of this article is that the same rule may hold for questions of public involvement. The article initially explains the theory and shows how it can be adapted to issues of public involvement. The theory is then tested using data from a reanalysis of 42 public decisions made with varying degrees of public involvement. The data support the theory. The theory even gains in elegance when applied to public involvement because some elements prove irrelevant to highly constrained public issues. These findings suggest that the theory can be a useful tool for public managers who must decide how much, if at all, to involve the public in resolving particular issues."
10.2307_977126	1995	"How have state and local jurisdictions responded to the Supreme Court requirement for race-neutral affirmative action programs in the area of public contracting? After the Supreme Court's decision in City of Richmond v. Croson (1989), state and local jurisdictions have had to reconsider all their affirmative action programs employing racial classifications. The Court required that, if possible, race-neutral rather than race-conscious programs be used. The authors examine how jurisdictions have responded to race-neutral approaches in the context of public contracting. They describe a variety of experiments with race-neutral programs, but find they have remained relatively politically unpopular and almost totally unevaluated."
10.2307_976862	1990	"The privatization movement has caused significant reexamination of assignment of public functions, but it is not a sufficiently complete answer to the issues forced by policy makers in deciding how to organize the delivery of services. Policy makers need to be concerned with interactions among different types of organizations, including public and private ones, as they function within public service configurations. To play their intended roles successfully, public organizations must also be structured with such interactions in mind. Three analytic dimensions (public interest, economic, and managerial) are offered to assist in evaluating structural arrangements for public organizations."
10.2307_976474	1992	"Did the 1990 Augustine Committee Report on the future of the space program deal effectively with the problems facing NASA? Although generally favorable in their assessment of the Committee's work, the authors in this symposium provide critiques of the Augustine Report from a variety of public administration perspectives. Jay Shafritz considers how the Committee approached issues dealing with the civilian space program's human resource needs Howard McCurdy provides critical insight into the ""organizational culture"" approach used by the Committee, while Arthur Levine (the symposium editor) focuses on how the Committee handled issues related to the organizational structure of NASA and the space program. Henry Lambright draws attention to the need for greater presidential leadership, another issue not effectively addressed in the Augustine Report. Finally, John Logsdon offers comments regarding the committee's lack of sufficient attention to the international dimensions of the civilian space program."
10.2307_975866	1984	"Many local governments in other countries are experiencing fiscal stress comparable to their United States' counterparts. A select number of their responses are described below categorized according to whether the responses involve better budgeting techniques, the identification of new revenue sources, or improving organizational productivity. It is hoped that such a description will be of value to other local governments and, in addition, stimulate further research and creative thinking in this area."
10.2307_976876	1990	"Although women have had a presence in ASPA since its founding in 1939, prior to 1972 they were virtually invisible in both the Society's governance and in its efforts to support the improvement of theory and practice in public administration through research and scholarship. Since 1972, women have made great strides in both their proportionate share of ASPA's membership and in its governance so that the Society is now more than representative of women relative to their employment in federal, state, and local government and in colleges and universities teaching public administration. However, while women now constitute an integral part of ASPA and of its governance, they will not achieve full equality with their male colleagues in ASPA until they are better represented in scholarly contributions to the field."
10.2307_3135035	1985	"Do we need more prisons or more alternatives to incarceration and prison construction? Based on available data, the analysis here suggests that greater social benefits are derived from prison incarceration than are usually assumed; it indicates overwhelming support for more prison capacity. The case for current use of probation and fines is less clear, since less data are available on the application of these sanctions. It, nonetheless, appears that social costs would be reduced if more probationers were given either prison terms or fines. This analysis also indicates that punitive fines for first offenders would have a deterrent effect and would reduce expenditures on prison supervision, while producing revenues and perhaps compensating victims."
10.2307_975657	1984	"The core personnel management functions of the line manager are to select, develop, and evaluate people. These functions are carried out in an environment where three decision premises compete to regulate that decision-making process. This article identifies the three competing premises, describes the social interest each represents, and analyzes the rationale for institutionalizing each premise. Next we explore the competing claims these diverse interests place on the manager, acknowledge their potential for blunting effective leadership, and argue for a more active role for the manager as an ethical agent. Finally, we propose an ethical decision-making framework to help managers implement that active stance."
10.2307_975473	1987	"In framing the Constitution, Madison sought a ""middle ground"" that would provide ""due supremacy"" to a national government while leaving the states intact in order that they might be ""subordinately useful."" Today the national government is unquestionably supreme, but for domestic purposes it relies pervasively on the states' cooperation. Many new measures of centralization marked the years 1965-80, yet even where the urge to centralize was strongest-in income support and environmental protection programs-state governments retain a great deal of discretion in policy making and freedom from federal administrative supervision. Madison was correct in supposing that the national government would not be well suited to the entire task of governing a vast country."
10.2307_976410	1991	"Are top-level administrators in the Israeli government different from their counterparts in Western democracies? Given the unique historical, social, and ideological roots of the Israeli state, many analysts expected top administrators in that government to be more representative of the general population and less populated by individuals from certain ""elite"" segments of the Israeli social order. Professor Nachmias' study indicates that those expectations are not being met-that Israel has developed a socially homogeneous ""bureaucratic elite"" that is unrepresentative of the country's social structure. Israeli non-Jews and Israeli-Arabs are ""conspicuously unrepresented"" in top positions. More surprising, women and Jews of Eastern descent (the Sephardim, who make up a majority of the Israeli electorate) are also underrepresented in this important group. Nachmias argues that educational patterns and civil service credentialism mirror and reinforce the social bias of Israel's bureaucratic elite. They have proven obstacles to a more open recruitment and promotion system at the highest levels of the government."
10.2307_976252	1988	"Twentieth century reorganization planning practices in the United States and Great Britain are compared for the purpose of examining the relationship between administration and governmental regime. Beginning in the century's second decade, reorganization planning in both societies took similar forms and was guided by the same concepts of administration. Yet, subsequent experience with reform planning in both societies have taken very different forms. Comparing the President's Commission on Economy and Efficiency and the Machinery of Government Committee and contrasting the practices of reorganization planning which follow upon these cases, marked differences in the organization of fundamental authority in these governmental systems are used to explain the observed variance in reorganization planning in the United States and Britain."
10.2307_3109931	1985	"The Reagan administration has made commercialization a cornerstone of its space program. In the thrust to propel private enterprise into space, significant policy and administration issues are being neglected, both in the government and by academic and professional observers. Policy issues include (1) the impact of commercialization on space science and space applications; (2) the impact on the competitive position of the United States vis-a-vis Japan and Europe; (3) U.S. relations with developing countries; and (4) government subsidies to new space ventures. Administration issues include (1) organizational and institutional arrangements for fostering commercialization; (2) regulatory reforms; and (3) mechanisms to insure fairness for firms entering the space business in the future and for users and consumers."
10.2307_976303	1986	"This research provides a cultural analysis of the reorganization process. Based on an ethnography of a state regulatory agency, it describes the profound symbolic and communicative effects of reorganizations. Reorganizations are not merely technical acts of designing the most efficient organizational chart and filling positions with the best qualified. They are status dramas that most often confirm the established distribution of informal authority but at times challenge deeply held assumptions."
10.2307_976492	1994	"Why do senior executives seriously consider leaving the federal service? Patricia Wilson answers this question focusing on factors that greatly expand those used in more conventional models of executive turnover. Specifically, she approaches public agencies as political systems in which subunit power and other political variables play an important role in such decisions. Her research finds subunit power-a structural and managerial phenomenon-to be an important determinant of senior executives' intent to leave the federal service. Wilson elaborates on the roles subunit power plays, particularly as mechanisms through which civil servants become ""empowered"" and thus more effective and successful implementors of public policy."
10.2307_3110036	1985	"Since 1980, municipalities and counties in Virginia have used mediators in formal annexation negotiations. This paper reports on that innovation. It reviews the statutory and administrative setting for the introduction of state endorsed formal mediation of annexation disputes in Virginia, and it discusses the negotiation processes employed. A brief review is also presented of administrative processes employed in Massachusetts and Wisconsin for structured negotiations and final dispute settlement between local officials and solid and hazardous waste facility site developers."
10.2307_976709	1993	"What factors determine the quality of end-user computing services in local governments? In a survey of 1,869 end users in 46 U. S. cities, the authors examine three major ""controllable"" factors that the literature indicates might influence the quality of computing services: (1) the structure of service provision, (2) the level of technological problems, and (3) the service orientation of computing service specialists. The survey results do not support the popular argument that structural factors (e. g., whether computing services are centralized or decentralized within an organization) are most important; both the level of operational problems and the attitudes of the service providers were more significant. The findings were especially supportive of explanations that focus on service-orientation factors, leading the authors to stress strategies for service improvement that concentrate on the ""sociotechnical interface"" (STI) between end users and computing service providers."
10.2307_3110035	1985	"This study reports results of a survey of university presidents concerning their priorities among programs of continuing education, applied research, and technical assistance or consulting to assist state and local public officials. It also reports how their priorities for those programs compare with their support of more traditional university programs and of university services for other groups, including business and professional, agricultural, general public, and labor. Comparisons of priorities are made between land grant and non-land grant universities. The study also examines whether universities with such programs are likely to continue and expand them and whether universities without such programs are likely to initiate them."
10.2307_977227	1989	"Eighteen years have passed since the U. S. Supreme Court's landmark decision in Griggs v. Duke Power Company. Since that time the Court has reviewed numerous cases, and it is now possible to describe the ""consensus"" that the Court has reached in the way it approaches affirmative action cases. Following a review of the Court's two-part analytical approach to affirmative action, this article analyzes the Court's deliberations with respect to the competing values of individual rights, social equity, and efficiency. The future of affirmative action is examined in terms of the influence of the Court's configuration, its respect for precedent, and the way in which the value of social equity has penetrated public personnel policy and practices."
10.2307_976703	1993	"What can practitioners learn from the recent research on policy design? David L. Weimer contends that while the literature on policy design has improved in recent years, there are few examples of articles explicitly addressed to practitioners who have a great deal to gain from this body of academic work. Using a variety of real and hypothetical cases, Weimer offers an introduction to the ""craft of policy design,"" focusing on various techniques, strategies, and directions for future research."
10.2307_976995	1988	"While economists and political scientists frequently assume that ""market failure in public goods"" justifies the monopoly power enjoyed by government institutions in performing selected functions, they have not generalized the consequences of market failure to specific public policy strategies nor to consideration of the political processes surrounding such strategies. The distinction between ""public goods"" and ""private goods"" is employed here to identify three dimensions of governmental activity that form the basis of an eightfold typology of public policy and to offer selected examples of specific policies that fit the typology. The categorization scheme exposes several limitations in the policy typologies previously offered by Theodore Lowi, Michael Hayes, and Randall Ripley and Grace Franklin."
10.2307_975762	1988	"An objective measure of cognitive impairment derived from the analysis of the form and content of verbal behavior was applied to the transcripts of extemporaneous speeches given by presidential candidates during their 1980 and 1984 televised debates. One presidential candidate was demonstrated to have significantly more cognitive impairment during these debates than other presidential candidates. The screening method used to measure cognitive impairment has been demonstrated to assess nonspecific cerebral dysfunction secondary to neuropharmacological, neurochemical, or other biological factors. In addition to the general medical examinations which top political officials undergo as an informal condition for public office, periodic neuropsychiatric examinations are technically feasible, whether or not requiring them is politically possible."
10.2307_976391	1989	"Advocates of conflict resolution methods have pursued their interests with little regard to the policy context in which conflicts occur. The descriptive model presented here permits a better grasp of the realities of how conflicts are resolved in the policy process. In it, such environmental factors as the number of interested parties, intensity of preferences, financial and organizational skills of the parties, issue complexity, and the requirements of law are seen collectively to determine the decision mode (coalition, adjudication, or negotiation). These same factors continue to operate, together with other variables such as level of trust, willingness to use third parties, willingness to share information, and participant-expected outcomes (over which the parties have control), to produce a range of resolution methods. An understanding of the relationships among at least these processes and variables appears essential to improve both the theory and practice of policy-related conflict resolution."
10.2307_977336	1989	"Public administration as an activity possesses in large degree the formal attributes of secular collective ritual, e. g., repetition, role playing, stylization, order, staging, and creation of meaning. Three types of administrative ritual can be identified: explicit rites, such as ceremonies and regularized events; formalistic processes, like budgeting and auditing; and expressive programs, exemplified by anti-drug campaigns and rural free delivery. Rituals constructed inside organizations tend to use specialized language and involve active participation; those directed to outsiders employ lay language and dramatic forms. Ritual in administration is unavoidable, and it affects different observers differently. If excessively compelling, it could be dangerous, but within proper constraints it helps to state collective purpose and reinforces common bonds."
10.2307_977145	1993	"What lessons can be drawn from the recent experience of the State of Connecticut? As Robert S. Kravchuk notes, Connecticut has made remarkable progress under the leadership of its independent governor, Lowell Weicker. Emerging from an economic and fiscal crisis that fed public distrust of government, Connecticut rebounded under Weicker. As Kravchuk shows, the government accomplished a great deal through sweeping administrative reforms."
10.2307_977179	1995	"Is public administration at risk of losing its theoretical distinctiveness as a discipline of study and practice; and if so, is this cause for concern? Ronald C. Moe and Robert S. Gilmour examine these questions and respond in the affirmative. The not-so-gradual retreat of public adminstrationists from their discipline's intellectual tradition in public law has left them vulnerable to the appeals of those promoting generic behavioral principles of management as taught in schools of business. In response to the harmful effects of efforts to subject the executive branch to management practices more appropriate to the private sector, the authors propose ten principles which reaffirm the distinctive character of public administration. These principles are rooted in public law and provide a basic theoretical framework through which the administrative state can be effectively managed. Properly understood and implemented, these principles can accommodate and enhance many of the useful contemporary management concepts (Total Quality Management, for example) while still conforming to the requirements of the Constitution for politically accountable public sector management."
10.2307_975520	1988	"This article describes the effective use of action planning during a period of changing leadership in the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). It describes how an action planning process ameliorated the organizational adjustments that can be expected during a major transition in the organization. The article reviews the previously observed organizational responses to change and describes the organizational setting in FDA at the time the action planning effort was undertaken. It then reviews the criteria used to design the agency's action planning process, describes the implementation and some problems encountered, and reviews lessons learned and unexpected benefits of action planning. Action planning contributed to an effective leadership transition by focusing the agency's attention on productive activities, by involving a significant portion of the agency's managers and staff in a highly visible and high priority activity, by increasing the effectiveness of communication between management and staff, and by orienting the new leadership to the agency's operations and responsibilities. The authors caution that the process must be in harmony with the organization's culture and previous experience in planning."
10.2307_976733	1994	"Does the experience of Asian Americans in the public service support their image as a ""model minority?"" The image of Asian Americans as a ""model minority"" conceals both their diversity and the discrimination they face. Although Asians are generally highly educated and well paid, Asian groups vary substantially in educational and earnings levels. Despite high average salaries, Asian federal employees earn less and wield less supervisory authority than comparably qualified nonminorities. For the men, the problem is not a ""glass ceiling"" that keeps highly educated and experienced Asians out of the top levels of the federal bureaucracy; instead, it is Asians without college degrees who receive worse treatment than comparable nonminorities. For the women, the pattern is more complex and more troubling."
10.2307_976374	1996	"What have been the implications of the 1988 Federal Employees Liability Reform and Tort Compensation Act? The Westfall Act was passed in 1988 to re-immunize federal workers from suits in common law tort, such as negligence. The act was passed to overturn a Supreme Court decision that caused a crisis affecting employees in all three branches of government. The law accomplished its main purpose but also has led to a set of new issues. Federal courts are in disagreement over the process by which the attorney general may transform a suit from being one against an individual to one against the government and over whether judicial review of this certification process is possible. Experience with the law involves doctrines about legislative intent, delegation of powers, and exhaustion of administrative remedies. For both those bringing suits and those being sued, the process is frustrating in that extended delays may occur while the courts determine in what court a case should be heard-federal district court or a state court-and who the defendant should be-the federal government or the federal employee."
10.2307_3110052	1996	"How should administrative officials interpret statutes? Michael W. Spicer and Larry D. Terry argue that this is an important question given the broad delegation of authority to public administrators by the legislative branch. The authors suggest that traditional approaches to statutory interpretation on their own may be deficient in that they conflict with the world view of the founders of the Constitution. Spicer and Terry argue that, in many cases, common-law reasoning provides a more suitable guide for administrative interpretation of statutes."
10.2307_3110411	1984	"In this paper, organization theory is used to develop some predictions about what is likely to happen when policy makers ask two or more administrative agencies to work together implementing a policy. This analysis incorporates several variables from the current implementation literature and then explores the utility of an additional factor-the pattern, or structure, of interdependence among the implementing units. One important conclusion is that, contrary to conventional wisdom, with certain structures of interdependence the chances of implementation may actually increase with the number of units involved. A sample of cases from U.S. General Accounting Office reports is used to check the applicability of this theory."
10.2307_977045	1996	"How can academic research be made more relevant to practitioners? The authors argue that the dominant quantitative technique in public administration, regression, and recent improvements in that technique, focus on the average cases rather than the high-performing cases. This focus may serve academics well, but it serves practitioners poorly. They introduce a new quantitative technique that better fits public administration's need for prescription. Their approach, substantively weighted least squares, stresses how high-performance agencies differ from the average agency. The technique in combination with more traditional methods can address both how things are as well as how they might be."
10.2307_976732	1994	"What variables should we manipulate to improve the status of women in public administration? Meredith Newman looks beyond gender as an explanatory variable, to an examination of the nature of state organizations, and the extent to which opportunity structures differ according to an agency's mission. Newman concludes that organizations are not created equal. The work environment of each of Lowi's agency types is distinctive, and predicts leadership styles, and patterns of career advancement."
10.2307_975594	1987	"This study examines the attitudes of city managers toward the use of affirmative action principles and practices vis-a-vis the recruitment of women into the local public sector. The study is based on 290 returned questionnaires from city managers, an important group in personnel policy making which has been omitted from analysis in previous affirmative action research. The sample comprises more than one out of ten city managers throughout the United States. Findings are that city managers support the principle of affirmative action but are less supportive of some mechanisms to facilitate its implementation. City manager background characteristics and having an affirmative action plan on-line are two major determinants of support. Perceptions about the local politics of affirmative action, as well as community and organizational demographics, have either minimum or no effect on the level of support for affirmative action for women."
10.2307_977339	1989	"The thesis of this article is that a public philosophy of public administration needs to be formulated. It must not be based upon romantic and technocratic approaches as past efforts have been. It must rest instead upon a revitalized concept of the public that stresses the importance of public interdependency, public learning, public language, and a critical evaluation of the relationship between the role of the state and public administration. This emphasis has important implications for the respective responsibilities of both academicians and practicing administrators."
10.2307_977379	1994	"Under what conditions do state agencies innovate by adopting strategic planning? Frances Berry develops four explanations about factors that lead a state agency to adopt strategic planning: its resources, its leadership cycle, its orientation to business and citizens; and diffusion of strategic planning across states. Her research finds that agencies are most likely to adopt strategic planning: (1) early in gubernatorial administrations, (2) under conditions of strong fiscal health, (3) when agencies work closely with private sector businesses, and (4) as the number of neighboring state agencies that have already adopted strategic planning increases. Implications for practitioners are drawn based on the study's findings."
10.2307_3110394	1992	"What are the organizational implications of adopting complex high technologies? In this study of the U.S. Army's M1 ""Abrams"" tank, Chris C. Demchak details the organizational consequences of contending with the complications created by this new weapon system. She focuses attention on how the Army handled ""rouge set"" outcomes-that is, those problems that are unknowable when the new technology is adopted. More complex organizational arrangements resulted from efforts to deal with the M1's rouge set. The ultimate test provided by the 1991 Persian Gulf War demonstrated that solutions were possible under the right circumstances. The lessons of the M1 case, however, demonstrate the need for greater attention to the organizational implications of adopting high tech systems."
10.2307_976408	1991	"What is social entrepreneurship, and what is its role in the public domain? Professors Waddock and Post focus on the activities of two social entrepreneurs to answer those questions and to provide some insight into the conditions that contribute to their work. Social entrepreneurs are private sector citizens who play critical roles in bringing about ""catalytic changes"" in the public sector agenda and the perception of certain social issues. Although not involved in direct actions to solve public problems, their work sets the stage and context for policy making and policy implementation activities. Using the leaders of Partnership for a Drug-Free America and Hands Across America as examples, Waddock and Post highlight the situational factors that made their projects so successful, including problem complexity, credibility, and a commitment to collective purpose."
10.2307_977129	1995	"Do differences in the competitiveness of local labor markets affect the government's ability to recruit and retain federal workers? The Federal Employee Pay Comparability Act of 1990 (FEPCA) assumes that they do. FEPCA replaces a uniform national salary schedule for white-collar workers with a system of locality pay, which will remunerate the same work more highly in San Francisco than in Santa Fe. The authors examine the logic underlying locality pay by testing hypotheses about recruitment and retention on a 1 percent sample of federal personnel records for 1985 through 1989. They find evidence that interarea differences in private sector pay levels have a limited impact on federal turnover rates, entry levels, promotion chances, or grade levels."
10.2307_976231	1986	"This is an analysis of the degree to which states have promoted a linkage of economic development and employment and training programs. It examines organizational rearrangements ranging from administration of these activities by a single agency to collaboration by separate organizational units through such methods as joint data bases, planning, training, and service delivery. The study explores the political, socioeconomic, and programmatic correlates of state organizational efforts. The results show that states which have forged the closest linkages are those which are confronted by declining economies despite extensive state fiscal incentives in support of the private sector and in which governors have fewer constraints on their powers to impose organizational changes. A conclusion is that the human capital dimension of economic development will not be maximized until powerful state education and employment agencies also become organizationally and programmatically linked."
10.2307_976704	1993	"What can the knowledge of program implementation developed over the past two decades tell us about the prospects for successful implementation of the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990? As Peter C. Bishop and Augustus J. Jones, Jr. note, the literature on program implementation has been retrospective. The ADA offers an opportunity to use implementation analysis to assess the potential for program success based on lessons of the past. A detailed study of the legislation and the initial steps taken in developing policy guidelines and regulations identifies some problems. However, their overall assessment of the prospects for successful implementation of the ADA is positive. Equally important is the authors' demonstration that implementation analysis can prove insightful when applied prospectively."
10.2307_3110440	1986	"This article identifies major issues underlying the use of tax amnesty by state governments and empirically examines experience of states with amnesty programs. The study is based on a survey of state fiscal agencies conducted in the summer and fall of 1985. Considered first are when and under what circumstances amnesties are likely to be effective. Criteria developed in that analysis are then employed as a framework to compare experiences of 13 amnesty states. Factors examined include planning, structure, performance, and politics. Concerns about current uses of tax amnesties are discussed, and suggestions are made for implementing amnesty programs."
10.2307_976548	1992	"What is the stake of public administration in political reform? Trudi Miller contends that public administrators have a great deal to gain from populist reforms that would focus on a revitalization of Madisonian democracy and capitalism as envisioned by Adam Smith. She argues that both the political right and left have turned the views of Smith and Madison on their heads, generating a political economy that sustains and exacerbates economic injustice. Public administration professionals, as agents of that system, have become part of the problem. Miller contends that only through the populist revitalization can public administration itself become revitalized."
10.2307_977365	1993	"What were the consequences of Ronald Reagan's strategy to reorient environmental policy? In this article, Robert Durant chronicles how the ""micromanaging"" reactions of the Congress to Reagan's relentless attempts at implementing this initiative interacted perversely with the administration's ""supply-side management"" goals to do three things in the hazardous waste policy arena. First, they foiled Reagan's goals of ""deregulation, defunding, and devolution"" of program responsibilities. Second, they undermined congressional goals of aggressive and effective implementation of hazardous waste statutes, and third, they diminished government's capacity to foster informed policy deliberation, civic education, accountability, and strategic goal setting. Durant concludes by assessing the case's implications for present debates over the political and managerial consequences of divided versus unified government in the United States."
10.2307_976632	1991	"Does the presence of municipal unions influence local decisions to privatize the delivery of public services? In this article, Timothy Chandler and Peter Feuille present the results of a survey of public works directors. Their findings indicate that unionization does have an impact. For example, cities with unionized sanitation employees are less likely to consider seriously the privatization of sanitation service, and less likely to implement privatization when it is seriously contemplated. Their study also shows that success of such union opposition is not dependent on negotiation or provisions of a bargaining contract, but is rooted in the unions' ability to exert influence away from the bargaining table. An additional factor is the relationship between the managers and the unions, for privatization is more likely to emerge on the agenda and be implemented in cities where labor-management relationships have been adversarial. Finally, Chandler and Feuille find that union opposition to privatization is rational, since unionization declines where contracting has occurred. Offsetting these findings are indications that privatization did not necessarily lead to high unemployment among displaced workers, that some of the private sanitation firms were unionized, and that some cities revert back to public provision of sanitation services."
10.2307_975358	1985	"This article explores the growth of public sector tourism development. Though the second largest industry in the United States, tourism has been neglected by scholars of the policy process. This study reports the findings of a 1984 survey of state and territorial tourism offices regarding their budgets, personnel needs, inter-governmental relations, and political support functions. What emerges is a startling picture of massive state competition and activity generating important and growing state revenues. Troubling, however, is the almost total absence of sociopolitical monitoring of tourism growth and little anticipated interest in hiring personnel with such administrative skills. The impact of public sector tourism management on public administration careers and specialties is also examined."
10.2307_3110346	1995	"Can planned organizational change efforts in public sector organizations be as successful as those in private organizations? Prior theory and research reflect some ambiguity regarding this question. Literature regarding traditional differences between the public and private sectors suggests that basic characteristics of public organizations may impede the success of planned change interventions. However, growing recognition of the fact that distinctions between the two sectors are becoming blurred reduces the viability of this assumption. Furthermore, prior empirical comparisons of intervention success have found that patterns of success are similar in the two types of organizations. Peter J. Robertson and Sonal J. Seneviratne address this question by using meta-analytic procedures to evaluate the impact of planned change interventions on seven categories of organization variables. Their findings suggest that, by and large, organizational change interventions are just as successful in both sectors. However, they found differences between the sectors for three variable categories, indicating that it is more difficult to implement changes in public organization work settings but that organizational performance can be improved more readily in public organizations."
10.2307_976302	1986	"An item veto for the President has been hailed by supporters as a potentially significant tool of fiscal restraint. Supporters point to its successful use by state governors, yet little is really known about how the item veto is employed at the state level. This study of gubernatorial item-veto use in Wisconsin over a 12-year period suggests that it has been used primarily as a tool of policy choice and partisan advantage rather than of fiscal restraint. Based on the Wisconsin experience, the author suggests that a presidential item veto could well be used largely as a resource to gain partisan leverage in pursuit of the President's policy agenda."
10.2307_976781	1990	"Are governments that adopted computers early receiving the payoffs today? Yes, but a major finding of this panel (1976-1988) study of 46 U. S. cities is that most payoffs from computerization are not felt immediately. Instead they take years to reach fruition. The major payoffs occur in the areas of fiscal control, cost avoidance, and better interaction with the public. But some anticipated benefits, such as better information for planning and managerial control, still have not been realized-even by cities that were on the leading edge of automation in the 1970s. Moreover, the prospects for future payoffs in these areas are mixed."
10.2307_976826	1995	"What strategy could boost performance measurement in local government beyond the current level that finds most cities predominantly reporting raw workload figures, if they report any performance indicators whatsoever? The author argues that increased emphasis of relevant performance comparisons-with other local governments and with appropriate standards-could capture media and citizen attention and thereby prompt greater accountability. Evidence is presented showing that relevant standards and actual performance figures suitable for comparative purposes, though hardly plentiful, do exist in selected municipal functions."
10.2307_977381	1994	"How can managers blend the essential ingredients of complex public programs in fragmented service delivery systems and overcome the specialized concerns of disparate organizations to create systems that work effectively? Edward T. Jennings, Jr. and Dale Krane identify both the barriers to successful coordination of social service programs and the approaches that managers in the Job Opportunities and Basic Skills (JOBS) program have taken to establish coordinated service delivery. They report considerable variation in the degree to which JOBS has been successfully coordinated with other programs. Various barriers hinder coordination, but effective managers have used diverse mechanisms and approaches to overcome those barriers. Leadership and interpersonal relations are the primary ingredients of effective coordination in JOBS. When these are combined with a vision of client service and agreement over the functional division of service responsibility, public agencies can work together to deliver effectively coordinated services."
10.2307_976971	1990	"Luther Gulick's continuing contributions to public administration during nearly eight decades of foremost leadership in the field can only be abstracted in these few pages. An abstract of the abstract is impossible, except to say that Gulick long ago earned an unrivaled reputation as a living legend and that public administration as a field is uniquely fortunate to have the continuing benefit of his insight and his sustained devotion to civic duty and public service."
10.2307_976599	1991	"What do we know about maladministration in the public sector? Not as much as we should, argues Gerald Caiden. In this survey of the literature, Caiden highlights the characteristics and types of administrative failure, as well as some explanations of maladministration with special emphasis on ""bureaucratization."" He concludes by providing a list of various ""bureaupathologies"" and a discussion of how they can plague a public organization."
10.2307_977361	1993	"Is public administration a profession? Richard Green, Lawrence Keller, and Gary Wamsley approach this long lasting debate from a new perspective. They argue that the field assumes an impoverished definition of ""profession"" and thus has neglected important dimensions of the practice that need examination in a more constructive debate. By returning to the classical roots of the word ""profession,"" the authors attempt to illuminate the roles that public administrators have played, and must play, if they are to govern effectively and ""professionally."" Drawing upon several works that develop the political roles of public administrators, they tie a conception of professionalism to constitutional politics rather than specialized managerial knowledge, perceiving public administration as a calling centered on democratic governance rather than techniques of policy implementation."
10.2307_975890	1987	"The question of collective bargaining rights for public sector supervisors (PSS) remains a fundamental policy issue in public personnel management. Some argue that PSS are ""middle management"" in title only and should be granted full bargaining rights. Others claim that, in order to improve public management, a clearly defined supervisory class is necessary, one that is not eligible to unionize. This study examines legislative and legal developments with respect to bargaining rights for PSS. A content analysis of all state public sector collective bargaining statutes in the United States and significant case law and related decisions of courts and administrative agencies was conducted. Four models emerged concerning the statutory treatment and framework for PSS bargaining. PSS were either: (1) excluded from coverage without any reference to particular job title, (2) excluded from coverage based on job title, (3) placed in autonomous supervisory units or, (4) allowed to bargain with rank-and-file employees in mixed units. Of the 88 statutes identified for analysis, 27% provide for PSS exclusion, 30% require separate supervisory unions, and 43% permit inclusion in mixed units. When measured from a longitudinal viewpoint a modest trend toward the exclusion of PSS from the right to bargain collectively is noted."
10.2307_976381	1996	"Is the success of democratization efforts in developing countries tied to the quality of public administration? Based on an evaluation of three Central American countries (Honduras, Panama, and Costa Rica), Donald Klingner claims that democratization and public personnel management are closely related. Although each country's development must be viewed in the light of its own conditions, public personnel management in these countries has evolved through a relatively uniform process, in three stages: (1) political patronage; (2) a transition to merit systems marked by passage of a civil service law, creation of an effective civil service agency, and elaboration of effective personnel policies and procedures; and (3) a dynamic equilibrium among the desirable but contradictory objectives that characterize public personnel management in developed countries. Because this process is essentially similar to the evolution of the field in the United States, it is possible that a general evolutionary model can be developed to predict or explain the relationship between democratization and enhanced public personnel management in developing countries."
10.2307_976341	1993	"The publication of this article marks Dwight Waldo's 80th birthday and over a half-century of his contributions to public administration. Marini argues that, while many of Waldo's contributions to the field have been recognized, the originality and creativity of this work has not yet been fully appreciated. This article seeks to memorialize Waldo's acknowledged contributions and call attention to aspects of Waldo's work that are not so frequently acknowledged."
10.2307_976869	1990	"In combating the negative but contradictory images the public holds of public administrators, Charles Goodsell has examined the research and concluded that bureaucrats are really just ordinary people. This article explores that contention. Using the General Social Surveys of 1982 through 1988, this study compares the political, social, and personal attitudes of the general public, public administrators, and public professionals and managers to explore how the latter groups resemble and contrast with the former. In particular, it examines whether the bureaucrats are more likely to favor the expansion of government spending and power, to hold less traditional views on religious and social issues, and to lead more emotionally stunted lives."
10.2307_3135018	1985	"In recent years, federal district court judges have assumed significant administrative and managerial powers over schools, prisons, mental institutions, and many other state facilities. This article examines the complex process of decision making and implementation in omnibus cases, the changing relationships of judges and administrators in such litigation, the special problems posed, and the opportunities for negotiation and compromise. A major theme is that the policy changes mandated by courts in such cases are filtered through and conditioned by a variety of factors beyond the control of judges."
10.2307_977080	1990	"The decision-making realm of citizen boards has been the subject of a great deal of research. In Public Administration Review, Henry and Harms linked the placement of board decision making on Svara's decision continuum to statutory authority vested in the boards. This research tests the findings of Henry and Harms on the Wisconsin Natural Resources Board. Findings indicate that this board makes decisions mainly at the mission/policy end of the continuum. Consistent with the previous research, findings also indicate activity at the administration/management end. This research indicates that exercise of decision-making authority at the administration/management end of the continuum is linked to political pressure and a possible failure of policy decisions to meet public needs. Throughout the 120-year history of Wisconsin's resource management and environmental protection agencies, there has been only one period (1915-1927) when the agencies have not been under the direction of a citizen board. Board members said that the Board rarely operates at the administration/management end of the continuum and that they do not belong there in their decision making. When the administration/management expression of policy creates enough political pressure, the Board may be forced to that end of the decision continuum by that pressure."
10.2307_976473	1992	"Did the 1990 Augustine Committee Report on the future of the space program deal effectively with the problems facing NASA? Although generally favorable in their assessment of the Committee's work, the authors in this symposium provide critiques of the Augustine Report from a variety of public administration perspectives. Jay Shafritz considers how the Committee approached issues dealing with the civilian space program's human resource needs Howard McCurdy provides critical insight into the ""organizational culture"" approach used by the Committee, while Arthur Levine (the symposium editor) focuses on how the Committee handled issues related to the organizational structure of NASA and the space program. Henry Lambright draws attention to the need for greater presidential leadership, another issue not effectively addressed in the Augustine Report. Finally, John Logsdon offers comments regarding the committee's lack of sufficient attention to the international dimensions of the civilian space program."
10.2307_975604	1988	"Although local planning and budget departments are commonly separated, the decisions that each makes often interact. This article, using the concepts of club theory, formally addresses this interaction. It concludes that the optimum local budget and level of local development are interrelated and that the jurisdiction's land use decisions and revenue raising decisions must be carefully undertaken to avoid rapid deterioration of the local economy. Marginal decision making and careful use of fiscal impact analyses are recommended to avoid typical problems."
10.2307_3135021	1985	"Since the turn of the century, judges have responded to criticism of inefficiency by experimenting with managerial techniques for processing cases. As the caseload pressures grew in the 1960s and 1970s, federal court reformers began to rely increasingly upon more managerial approaches. Proponents of those changes claim that judicial case management decreases delay, produces more dispositions, and reduces litigation costs. But an examination of available studies shows little support for a firm conclusion that recent innovations in judicial management are responsible for gains in efficiency. Moreover, judicial management techniques impose additional costs and pose the risk of abuse of judicial power in the quest for greater economies."
10.2307_976152	1985	"Much of federal policy involving health, environmental, and safety matters is made through agency rule making. Since the 1960s, the scope of rule making has been expanded to control risks associated with industrial technologies. Control of toxic pollutants in the environment illustrates the complexity of the task: toxics are unusually persistent and often travel from one medium to another. This makes them difficult to control under statutes that were designed to regulate pollutants in a single medium. This article explores the concept of comprehensive rule making-a management strategy for regulating risks under several statutes. It deals with the development of integrated environmental management at the Environmental Protection Agency from 1976 to 1983. Subsequently, former EPA Administrator William Ruckelshaus created a Toxics Integration Task Force composed of senior agency scientists and managers. The group's proposals are now being implemented. They include, among others: the development of risk assessment guidelines; the establishment of an agency-wide risk assessment forum; the convening of an inter-agency risk management council; and an agency report on risk assessment and risk management."
10.2307_976379	1996	"Can an integrated environmental management approach be effectively implemented in light of the many barriers to its success? Barry G. Rabe examines a case that suggests that it can. The transfer of pollutants across the medium boundaries of air, land, and water is an increasingly evident by-product of the fragmented environmental regulatory systems employed in the United States and Canada. Recent developments in the Great Lakes Basin suggest that significant steps toward integration are being attempted through a variety of mechanisms. Examination of these developments indicates that regulatory integration may be more politically and administratively feasible than conventionally accepted."
10.2307_3135030	1985	"In the last decade there has been unheralded expansion of governmental tort liability, primarily due to rulings by state and federal courts. Tort liability imposes a financial punishment on public administrators, but it also has broader consequences for the legislative and executive branches. Focusing on some of the problems facing the state of Washington arising from litigation over tort liability, the author provides a view of the underlying forces and consequences of the expansion of governmental tort liability."
10.2307_975785	1986	"This article adds information to the discussion about bureaucratic representativeness. Focusing on the highest ranking civil servants, the data are from personal interviews with members of the California Career Executive Assignment (CEA) system, equivalent in rank to the Federal Senior Executive Service (SES). Emphasis is on (1) comparisons of higher civil servant representativeness between the SES, CEA, and states in general; (2) differences between women and minority CEA members and their male and nonminority CEA colleagues; and (3) how CEA women and minorities view their management roles. These roles raise again the question of whether ""passive"" representation of women and minorities leads to ""active"" representation of their group interests. No conclusions are possible, but the responses suggest that women and minorities hold ""managerial"" perspectives similar to nonminority males. These ideologies may work against direct representation of group interests."
10.2307_3110408	1984	"Public sector service delivery and regulatory activity in the U.S. is now accomplished largely through collective action which crosses traditional governmental boundaries. Accordingly, evaluations aimed at improving the management of such intergovernmental programs must explicitly reflect the ways in which ""indirect management"" shapes program activity. Doing this requires the development of new kinds of evaluations, since traditional approaches do not account for multiple objectives, fragmentation of authority and responsibility, and special constraints on resource allocation and timing, all of which are inherent in the intergovernmental setting. This paper describes the nature of ""indirect management"" and illustrates the challenges facing those who must function in such settings. It also outlines the associated implications for those who attempt to evaluate managerial aspects of intergovernmental programs."
10.2307_976996	1988	"The efforts of eight governmental units to initiate strategic planning are analyzed and discussed. All eight units are in the Twin Cities area of Minnesota. It appears that the following elements must be in place for the initiation of strategic planning by a government to succeed: (1) a powerful process sponsor, (2) an effective process champion, (3) a strategic planning team, (4) an expectation of some disruptions and delays, (5) a willingness to be flexible concerning what constitutes a strategic plan, (6) an ability to think of junctures as a key temporal metric, and (7) a willingness to construct and consider arguments geared to many different evaluative criteria."
10.2307_976466	1992	"Can public-sector entrepreneurship among public administrators be reconciled with the demands for adherence to democratic values in government administration? Carl Bellone and George Frederick Goerl review the nature of that challenge by considering the seemingly contrary values emphasized in each role. While entrepreneurship calls for autonomy, a personal vision of the future, secrecy, and risk-taking behavior, democratic administration demands accountability, citizen participation, open policymaking processes, and ""stewardship"" behavior. They believe these perspectives can be bridged through a ""civic-regarding entrepreneurship"" which builds on a ""strong theory of citizenship."""
10.2307_976061	1987	"The Founders of the American regime were concerned that both citizens and governors have virtues appropriate to a democratic republic. They relied on the interaction among constitutional correctives, honor, and education to assure that public administrators would be publicly virtuous. In his 1887 essay on the study of administration, Woodrow Wilson shared the Founders' view concerning the problems of connecting the administrator's self-interest with that of the public. In this article, we describe Founding thought with regard to the cultivation of public virtue and its applicability to public administration."
10.2307_977278	1993	"What are the characteristics of a successful strategic planning effort? Craig Wheeland examines Rock Hill, South Carolina's award-winning citywide program. He highlights the lessons to be drawn from that experience. Based on surveys and interviews, Wheeland's study shows how the people of Rock Hill met most of the standards for a successful planning program."
10.2307_977252	1996	What role do demands for constancy play in the operations of public agencies? Institutional constancy of agencies and firms is discussed as a concept and an increasingly important political requirement for the operation of hazardous systems in the United States. Situations that increase demands for it are outlined and a basis for analysis and improving constancy is proposed.
10.2307_3109965	1985	"This article describes underlying concepts of employee assistance programs (EAPs) and presents profiles of EAP clients in three eastern cities: Baltimore, Washington, D.C., and Philadelphia. Inferences about the identification and referral process are drawn from the data, and the article concludes with a discussion of EAP implementation concerns in the public sector. These include whether adequate public managerial understanding and commitment to EAPs exist, demographic profiles of employees served, and alternative strategies to achieve desired results."
10.2307_977182	1995	"What has been happening in the public administration arena of the largest country in the world? Despite major developments in the People's Republic of China over the past decade, little empirical and comparative analysis has appeared. Based on their extensive work in China over this period, Worthley and Tsao describe and analyze the Chinese reforms in the context of political and economic development. They find that the considerable changes described have been consistently and insistently anchored in China's recent administrative history, and that the administrative reforms are operationally inseparable from contemporary political and economic developments. They further find remarkable similarities with the historical development of public administration in the United States. The authors suggest that the Chinese experience may offer fruitful insights-theoretical as well as practical-for administrative development across cultural boundaries."
10.2307_977255	1996	"How much can PCs aid city management? This article is based on a 1993 survey that compares computing in cities that use only personal computers (PCs) with computing in cities that use central computer systems. The authors found that claims that PCs would speed up automation of governmental functions were not substantiated. Central system cities were more widely automated, had more widespread use among staff, and were more likely to deploy leading-edge computer technologies than PC-only cities. Moreover, respondents in central cities were positive about computer impacts and satisfied with computing. PC-only cities had an edge over central-system cities in that they reported fewer problems with computers, but the test of statistical significance showed only a weak relationship. The authors argue that PC-only cities' reliance on ad hoc solutions, out-sourcing, or ""computer gurus,"" results in a failure to develop ongoing support capabilities. In contrast, central-system cities have developed and enhanced these capabilities over time, thereby providing greater support for the computing function and a more stable technology platform."
10.2307_976448	1996	"Vice President Al Gore's National Performance Review (NPR) set out in 1993 to transform the basic culture of federal organizations to make them more performance based and customer oriented. The conceptual framework for this effort grew out of more than a decade of evolving management practices in the public and private sectors that have been collectively dubbed the ""reinventing government movement."" This movement was led by practitioners and was based on their experiences, their observations of the private sector, and a body of nontraditional literature, both in the United States and abroad. This article explains, from a practitioner's point of view, the origins of the reinventing government movement and its influence on NPR's efforts to change the culture of the federal government."
10.2307_976527	1994	"What are the costs of the contracting out process? While supporting contracting as a viable tool for public sector managers, Jonas Prager argues the public sector often pays inadequate attention to the costs of managing contracting out and monitoring contractor compliance. Prager contends that government production might be more efficient than outsourcing when these costs overwhelm savings that might otherwise accrue from contracting out."
10.2307_976494	1994	"What are the barriers to the assessment of unmet HIV prevention needs? Ronald O. Valdiserri and Gary R. West identify four major categories of barriers to conducting comprehensive needs assessments: resource deficits, technical deficits, environmental complexity, and apprehension about expectations. Valdiserri and West discuss these barriers in terms of their implications for public health practitioners administering HIV prevention programs. They observe that despite the inherent obstacles, comprehensive, methodologically sound needs assessments conducted collaboratively by the providers and consumers of HIV prevention services are essential to the development of effective prevention programs. They note that many researchers and public policy analysts have commented upon the necessity of involving the communities in need throughout the assessment process and describe two federally funded programs that provide incentives for conducting participatory, comprehensive needs assessments."
10.2307_976734	1994	"To what extent do the structural characteristics of local governments impact public policy outcomes? Using data collected in 1989 by the International City/County Management Association and U. S. Bureau of the Census, Victor S. DeSantis and Tari Renner analyze total expenditures of U. S. counties in an attempt to determine the effect of reformed county government structures on spending. Given the increase of county manager and county executive systems over the last two decades, are there any differences in spending patterns between these systems and the traditional commission system? The data indicate that differences do exist between the county forms; reformed counties spend less per capita than unreformed counties, even when controlling for several other factors."
10.2307_977147	1993	"What is the rationale for the adoption, diffusion, and implementation of pay-for-performance programs in the public sector? Patricia Ingraham questions the basis for the common view that private sector experience with pay-for-performance has been successful. She explores the additional problems posed by public management and compensation systems. An examination of implementation of pay-for-performance in the United States and in other OECD nations demonstrates gaps between expectations and realities in public settings. Despite obvious problems, the effort continues to appeal to both elected officials and many public managers. More careful attention to design, resource commitment, and evaluation in public organizations is recommended."
10.2307_976068	1987	"This research examines important characteristics of presidential appointees and the authority which they have over career managers in the Senior Executive Service (SES). It concludes that very short tenure in one position and frequent lack of preparation for government management create a cadre of political executives which is constantly moving and constantly ""learning the ropes."" Despite additional power granted over the SES by the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978 and despite larger numbers of appointees, it is unlikely that the President will achieve greater ability to direct and control the permanent bureaucracy if current trends persist. Further, the impact on the quality of public management is likely to be detrimental."
10.2307_976616	1990	"Ethics has been a topic of national concern in recent years, yet little is known about the attitudes of public managers toward contemporary ethical problems in government. This study presents the results of a national survey of practicing managers. Three topic areas are analyzed: ethics in society and government; integrity in public agencies; and moral standards, including the American Society for Public Administration (ASPA) Code, in organizational conduct. Following this discussion, the implications of the data for ASPA's initiatives in fostering ethics are presented."
10.2307_975312	1987	"The serious and recurring ethical issues raised by expectations of loyalty to hierarchy are used as an occasion for analysis of the ethical dimensions of the public administrative role in its organizational setting. Alasdair MacIntyre's concepts of practices, internal goods, external goods, and virtues are presented as useful elements in a theoretical framework for clarifying the ethical identity of the public administrative role. A table, organized around three realms of obligation, indicates the kinds of internal goods and virtues which might constitute the ethical content of the practice of public administration. Finally, it is suggested that the ASPA Code of Ethics should be grounded in the kind of perspective developed here."
10.2307_976387	1989	"Use of statistical measures in public policy analysis must be examined both from the perspective of statistical appropriateness and for policy bias. All measures carry with them their own mathematical and policy assumptions. This need for a twofold analysis is illustrated by an examination of two measures used for evaluation of school desegregation. The Taueber Index and the Interracial Exposure Index are both seen to fall short of being ""single best measures."" The use of graphics can often illustrate some of the underlying policy assumptions and highlight the need for open discussion of the normative aspects of political decision making."
10.2307_976925	1992	"How effective are the approaches used by federal agencies to gain compliance from state officials in programmatic areas? William Gormley posits three types of federal government approaches: those providing state officials with considerable discretion (""catalytic"" controls); those backed by more explicit oversight from federal agencies (""coercive"" controls); and those relying on political and other incentives to generate state-level compliance (""hortatory"" controls). Using the relations between three southern states (Mississippi, South Carolina, and Georgia) and the Department of Agriculture's regional office in Atlanta, Gormley focuses on the implementation of intergovernmental relations related to USDA's Child Care Food Program. He finds that hortatory controls worked well in gaining the cooperation and compliance of South Carolina's officials. However, the application of coercive controls had mixed results in Mississippi where the bureaucratic and political contexts were more open to the Atlanta's office demands than were conditions in Georgia where the coercive approach failed. Gormley concludes by noting the more problematic nature of the coercive approach and the care that must be taken in designing an inter-governmental implementation strategy."
10.2307_976811	1992	"Can higher education administrators meet the new challenges of the 1990s? Charles F. Bonser argues they can if they adopt the ""total quality management"" approach that has been so successful in other types of organizations. Using the principles of TQM outlined by Deming and others, Bonser discusses their potential application to the higher education environment."
10.2307_975656	1984	"The cumulative impact of the negative aspects of the lives of public servants is making government at all levels unnecessarily frustrating and unattractive for many talented Americans. This essay begins with a discussion of the impact of negative public attitudes on government morale, including a description of how the news media, interest groups, and candidates for elective office fuel these negative attitudes. The human toll of government service comes next with a description of the political environment that chews up some of our finest public servants and discourages others from going into government. After cataloging the specific excesses of the present environment, the frustrations they cause, and the stereotypes they create, the author suggests that the public in general and leaders of interest groups and the news media in particular must begin to think of government in new ways if we are to build the strong and respected government service that our country needs."
10.2307_977385	1994	"What is ""organizational incompetence?"" Why has the subject remained virtually unexamined in the literature of organization theory? J. Steven Ott and Jay M. Shafritz argue that incompetence is primarily an organizational issue-not an individual issue-which has two faces. It is a social construct and an ""objective"" reality. As a social construct, organizational incompetence results in withdrawn or withheld support for public organizations and institutions. As an ""objective"" reality, it is a repeated pattern of an organization not able or willing to learn from its environment, its failures, or its successes. The authors examine the literature of organization theory for insights that can help in defining what it is, as a first step in the development of a general theory of organizational incompetence."
10.2307_975468	1987	"This essay explores how the development of the administrative state with its stress upon the politics-administration dichotomy meshed with the constitutional principle of separation of powers. The ideas of the reformers themselves are examined, as are the context and policy content of several laws that proved seminal during the rise of the American administrative state. The analysis demonstrates how both doctrines contributed, sometimes in complex fashions, to the structure of the nation's public administration. The article concludes with some observations about the current status of these constructs and on the theory and practice of American public administration."
10.2307_975478	1987	"The commemoration of 200 years of the U. S. Constitution offers an opportunity to reflect on the importance of time in public administration. American history presents an endless variety of lessons underscoring that importance, as do the writings of scientists, historians, and philosophers dating from the time of the Greeks. The recognition of the many ways in which time affects us as input, output, process, etc., leads to an appreciation of the fact that organizations, like nations, are living organisms, which grow and change in time. Organizational, managerial, economic, or social problems must be viewed as characteristics of a changing world and must be addressed by public policy makers and administrators who are themselves constantly innovative and open to change."
10.2307_977224	1989	"The quality of public administration research has been widely criticized in recent years, but there has been much less discussion about how to change the situation. This article offers suggestions for increasing the quality of research in public administration. The suggestions are based upon the observation that universities that are successful in stimulating research provide four types of institutional supports: (1) institutional values supportive of research, (2) faculty capable of doing research, (3) research resources, and (4) institutionalized effort."
10.2307_976602	1991	"How effective is the federal government's employee drug-testing program? Frank Thompson, Norma Riccucci, and Carolyn Ban offer an assessment that focuses on both the instrumental and symbolic rationales for the program. They find little evidence to support contentions that drug testing improves workplace efficiency, nor do they find support for arguments that it promotes public health or reduces crime. Symbolically, federal drug testing seems to cut both ways. One can argue that the values of constitutional democracy are enhanced through these programs, but questions related to respect for individual rights directly challenge that assessment. It can also be argued that communal values and administrative integrity are strengthened, but the authors raise doubts about these contentions as well. Although seeing some possibility of making the drug-testing program more credible, the authors conclude by questioning the program's value as a model for similar efforts."
10.2307_976344	1993	"Who (in the United States) invented public budgeting? Irene Rubin contends that, although business is often touted as the model for governmental improvements in budgeting and accounting, it turns out that government officials and academics, often working in concert, invented, imported, and modified public budgeting in the United States. They were encouraged, often pushed, by business groups but generally resisted copying business practices, which were not very good at the time. The story of the origins of budgeting in the United States was to some extent intentionally distorted to make business owners look good. The extent to which business was wrongly described as the origin of improved public practices is suggestive of similar efforts today to ascribe good practices to businesses and bad practices to government. It is important to remember, Rubin argues, that in the early part of this century, public officials responded to criticisms about increased expenditures and lack of sufficient financial control by improving their own management. We should take pride in their accomplishments, and in our capacity to correct our own mistakes. We should be wary of assuming that business practices are what the public sector needs."
10.2307_976670	1994	"How does budgetary balance affect the budgetary process? Is budgetary balance in fact the ideal and empirical reality portrayed in the prescriptive and descriptive literature on municipal budgeting? This study confirms empirically the pivotal role of balance and details its operation in the 100 most populous cities in the United States. Bridgeport's brush with bankruptcy demonstrates the limits of balance and how it differs from insolvency. It indicates that the court's ruling narrowed access to bankruptcy protection for municipalities legally required to adopt a balanced budget. This city's experience with a stringent requirement for year-end balance is the backdrop for examining tactical devices aimed at achieving formalistic compliance with balanced budget requirements and cautions against overrating the power of balance as budgetary disciplinarian. This study concludes that municipal budgetary behavior cannot be reduced fruitfully to a single criterion, even one as widely accepted as budgetary balance."
10.2307_976975	1990	"As the professionalization of permanent career bureaucrats at all levels increased significantly, bureaucracy's acceptance by its clients-citizens and political elites alike-decreased. The loss of respect associated with this ""paradox of professionalization"" is analyzed by tracing 50 years of public administration practice. The key focus is on the changes in other actors and processes-Congress, the President, intergovernmental relations, interest groups, the general public-that affect the paradox. Explanations for bureaucracy's loss of respect are the decline of trust in government, the transformation of government spawned by growth, and reform attempts that are judged to result in a ""failed search for order."" Today's political realities (e. g., fragmented government, multiple sources of policy leadership, divided party control, constitutional ambiguities, legislative entrepreneurs, competitive federalism, etc.) offer new directions for governance and for a reversal of the paradox of professionalization. Trends in policy leadership, facilitative management, the states' resurgence, a reshaping of fiscal federalism, the vitality of local governments, and other factors are cited as promising developments for dealing with the paradox of professionalization."
10.2307_976574	1989	"Governing institutions are undergoing profound changes-responsibilities for public programs continue to be dispersed, and there is a growing emphasis on sharing power among the units. Two bodies of theory are frequently used to interpret these changes: public choice theory which applauds efforts to diffuse responsibilities and public administration theory which worries that diffusion increases complexity and undermines accountability. This study reviews these two bodies of theory and their perspectives on dispersed authority. Secondly, it reviews recent developments within the literature on public administration. It then outlines an alternative theory. This third approach incorporates concerns from both public choice and public administration theory as well as recent emphases on management strategies. It provides a more complete set of criteria for evaluating institutional arrangements, and it offers a better understanding of dispersed and shared responsibilities."
10.2307_975863	1984	"Interpreting an organization's performance requires comparing its actual performance to a standard. The performance ratio, linear programming, and cost function models may each generate standards for comparing an organization's overall performance. This article shows how each model could be used to develop standards. It then discusses the requirements for using each model and the model's advantages and disadvantages."
10.2307_977230	1989	"Title XIV of the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 put an end, effective October 18, 1986, to General Revenue Sharing (GRS). Established in October 1972, GRS was to provide fiscal assistance to state and local governments. This study examines the impacts of the termination of general revenue sharing on the financial practices of local governments in New England. Results of the study show that local governments will have to raise taxes, find other revenue sources, or reduce levels of services."
10.2307_975574	1986	"With the growing resource, intergovernmental, and accountability pressures on state government, we need to examine the use of recent managerial tools such as decision support and expert systems. This exploratory study analyzes data from the information systems supplement to the 1985 National Association of State Budget Officers (NASBO) survey to assess the current level of and potential for information system use in financial and budgetary decision making. The results illustrate that certain contextual, managerial, organizational, computerized information systems and decision support factors are highly interdependent in the state financial management process. Their implications for decision support and information systems are presented."
10.2307_976074	1984	"Public schooling has experienced a decade of substantial teacher oversupply coupled with marked enrollment decline. Now, shortages are beginning to appear in the most difficult to fill teaching jobs, such as math, science and bilingual education, prompting an exploration of the labor market for teachers and possible public policy interventions. First, a supply/demand model suggests that no aggregate market stimulation is necessary during the remainder of the decade, and that small changes in employment incentives and in the student-teacher ratio will serve to create an aggregate balance. However, substantial and persistent shortages may be expected in the hard-to-fill specialties and in relatively unattractive work places. The ability of school districts to fill these jobs depends on their ability to fashion and fund incentives. Second, the current cohort of teachers is bunched in the midcareer, thus incentives to existing teachers are important. Third, attracting the best qualified college graduates has proven difficult, and the expected labor market conditions in the late 1980s will probably not enhance the relative attractiveness of public school teaching. The only policy intervention that appears to directly affect teacher quality are the assessments of academic ability via independent tests. We, at least, know that these eliminate a substantial percentage of the least qualified potential teachers. And if the least qualified can be eliminated from the potential pool of teachers, there is some hope that market forces will pressure changes in salary and working conditions sufficient to attract the more qualified."
10.2307_976228	1986	"The First Amendment and the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) are interrelated elements of the system of free expression. The Supreme Court's power to interpret both the constitutional provisions and the statutes plays a central role in shaping information policy. This article argues that while the Court has moved from a rights-based theory of free expression to a more expansive free-flow approach, it has simultaneously demonstrated deference to government claims for control over information in its interpretation of FOIA and created exemptions to the general free-flow concept in its constitutional rulings. The Court's recent decisions are inconsistent with its own demands that government should protect the free-flow of information needed by the citizenry for self-governance."
10.2307_977228	1989	"Many see the item veto as the way to reduce federal budget deficits. In theory, the item veto would empower the President to remove wasteful and unnecessary projects without vetoing the entire legislation. Yet, despite its long history at the state level, the item veto is a loosely defined concept. Proponents first should explain precisely what they wish to introduce to the federal system. While state appropriations procedures are well suited to an item veto, Congress appropriates vast lump sums. Thus, it is not apparent how the item veto would work at the federal level. Much more worrisome is the impact on the balance of power. If the President can find a way to use the item veto, his ability to control the legislative agenda is greatly increased. This is the real issue, not control of spending."
10.2307_976767	1995	"Public sector values, structures, and practices are changing dramatically for the first time in many decades. Unfortunately, agencies are ill equipped for these changes. Most important, because their current values and assumptions have never been questioned before, they are largely unaware of them. In the worst scenario, a consultant hands an agency a list of ""new"" values to adopt, and the agency does, because it knows change is necessary and wants quick assistance. This exaggerated, but not uncommon, scenario highlights the need for internal value and performance assessments which lead to genuine and rational adoption of new values and practices. Rather than being a quick transitional phase, wise organizations use multiple assessment strategies to obtain data, insights, and even consensus on issues and weaknesses. Change becomes more internally driven rather than externally forced. In this article, the author examines the strengths and weaknesses of seven types of organizational assessment strategies."
10.2307_977046	1996	"What is the degree to which the Measure of Variation (MV) index possesses measurement reliability and yields similar representation scores when compared to other representation indexes? Recent research on representative bureaucracy has questioned the degree to which the MV index is reliable and valid for estimating minority incorporation (representation) in the federal work force. At present, there is a lack of sufficient empirical evidence that estimates the extent to which the MV index is reliable and valid. The results of Guajardo's study indicate that the MV index possesses a reasonable degree of measurement reliability and that it is appropriate for assessing and measuring future minority representation in the federal government."
10.2307_977081	1990	"This is a report of research which assesses the information, training, and assistance needs of local government. Data were obtained through a 1989 mail questionnaire, sent to 500 city managers and mayors, selected randomly from across the United States. A total of 340 local government practitioners returned usable questionnaires, resulting in a 68 percent response rate. The 30 questionnaire items tapped five areas of local government training and assistance needs: information, maintenance and operation, dealing effectively with the external environment, fiscal concerns, and human resource management. Findings are that local government practitioners are concerned with a wide variety of training and assistance issues which extend beyond traditional managerial knowledge, skills, and abilities of public administration. Results indicate that smaller communities have greater, yet not different, perceived needs than those of larger municipalities. Furthermore, the acknowledged needs of mayor-council local government are somewhat different, yet not greater, than those found in council-manager municipalities."
10.2307_976576	1989	A new scientific world view is emerging in which instability and disorder are essential elements in the development of entirely new forms of organized complexity. This article employs an emergent theory from these discoveries-nonequilibrium theory-to explore organizational and administrative dynamics in public administration. Nonequilibrium theory adds insight into those events when existing structures break down and then regenerate novel forms of complexity. Nonequilibrium theory is proposed as a model for understanding and analyzing genuinely discontinuous changes in systems relevant to public administration. Research into nonequilibrium theory is proposed to assess the applicability of this recently developed paradigm to public administration.
10.2307_975864	1984	"At this time it is appropriate to examine the FRC experience and to record the more significant kinds of contributions made by the FRCs to policy management in the intergovernmental system. This paper proposes that the past and most current missions of the Federal Regional Councils can be more readily understood if the councils are viewed as policy networking organizations. From the vantage point of the central executive, the FRCs had the capability to function as linchpins in a national political network of appointed executives. They have been of value for monitoring responses to current policy initiatives and assisting in their interpretation. From the perspective of regional operations, the FRCs also were most successful when they have functioned as policy networking organizations. In Region VIII, successful FRC performance in coordinating policy in the Rapid City Flood, and successful FRC intervention using energy impact teams, illustrate the contributions of the councils. This paper demonstrates that FRC success at the regional level was greatest when the FRCs were able to fill a gap in the institutional fabric of the intergovernmental system."
10.2307_976434	1994	"What impact did City of Richmond v. J. A. Croson Co. (1989) have on minority set-aside programs in terms of dollars spent before and after the decision was handed down? This article identifies various administrative responses to Croson. In addition to the wide scale use of disparity studies undertaken to establish a legal basis for the continuation of set-aside programs, cities also (although in some cases temporarily) established more innovative race- and gender-neutral goal programs to circumvent the legal merits of Croson while still directing sizable amounts of contracting dollars to minority-owned and operated businesses. Other cities simply abolished their programs. The findings also suggest that the percentage of black population is the only variable in the equation that comes close to explaining the variance in dollars spent. In the South for instance, only cities with a 25 percent black population or higher had set-aside programs and were the most aggressive in preserving dollars spent on such programs after Croson. However, cities in other regions with significantly lower percentages of black populations maintained set-aside programs."
10.2307_977165	1992	"What can policy makers learn from the fiscal experience of New York during the 1980s? By most measures, the state went from a position of fiscal strength in the early 1980s to fiscal crisis by the end of the decade. In their analysis of demographic, social, economic, and fiscal patterns, Roy Bahl and William Duncombe show that the lack of long-term fiscal planning and short-term discipline were the root causes of the turnabout. They call for greater use of both, as well as tax reforms that will better reflect the changing reality of local and state economies."
10.2307_976945	1991	"What has been the impact of U. S. Supreme Court decisions on public employee litigiousness? Focusing on Court decisions in five key cases between 1972 and 1980, Don Jaegal and N. Joseph Cayer provide some answers indicating significant implications for the conduct of public personnel policy in the United States. The 1972 Roth decision had an immediate and enduring impact through increasing the number of civil suits by public employees claiming their rights had been violated by employers. That trend was only temporarily interrupted by the Court's 1976 Bishop decision. The study also reveals the implications of all five decisions on the nature of the complaints made in employee lawsuits as well as their impact on which public officials were targets of those court actions. Jaegal and Cayer conclude with a brief discussion of steps public personnel administrators might take in light of these findings."
10.2307_3110123	1993	"Are women executives in state governments confronted with the ""glass ceiling""? Using data from the American State Administration Project's 1984 and 1988 surveys, Angela M. Bullard and Deil S. Wright answer that and related questions. They find that women have made considerable inroads in securing top administrative posts, especially in certain types of agencies and newly created organizations. However, much of their progress has been accomplished by circumventing or avoiding rather than ""breaking"" the glass ceiling. The data also indicate female and male executives are becoming more similar in terms of educational levels, types of graduate degrees, hours worked per week, the mix of administrative and policy functions, and salary levels. Differences in factors such as party affiliation, age, interagency mobility, career progress, and dependence on gubernatorial appointment remain noticeable."
10.2307_976063	1987	"Based upon a body of empirical research drawn largely from property tax rollback settings, a conventional wisdom about the consequences of fiscal limitation has emerged, which holds that fiscal limits are easily circumvented through a combination of inter-governmental bailouts and a turn toward alternative revenue sources; it also holds that fiscal limitation exacerbates the rush toward nonguaranteed debt by complicating the tax-support potential of general obligation bonds. What has been missing is a strict test of this conventional wisdom based upon evidence from a fiscal limit setting that contrasts in important ways with Proposition 13 and similar situations. This paper reports results of analysis of one such case-local government in Missouri after the Hancock Amendment. It shows strong support for the revenue diversification thesis, mixed results concerning debt impacts, and no support for the fiscal centralization thesis."
10.2307_976304	1986	"Twenty-two states plus the District of Columbia, including almost 60 percent of the nation's population, are conducting state lotteries in 1986. These lotteries enjoy a popularity rare among revenue sources in this or any political era. Does this revenue source promise fiscal relief in a difficult financial environment for states, or do lotteries remain a ""fickle form of finance"" with fluctuating and low returns? This paper provides background on state lotteries and analyzes revenue performance in each state. It also reviews the cases made by proponents and opponents of the lottery as a state operation. The result is a set of conclusions that the lottery is a source of limited government revenues and is of doubtful merit in some states."
10.2307_976446	1996	"How has the federal emergency management system fared in post-Andrew era? When Hurricane Andrew struck south Florida in the waning days of the 1992 presidential campaign, it sent shock waves through the White House and emergency management policy subsystem that have not yet subsided. Wamsley and Schroeder analyze the causes and effects and conclude: (1) that politics of disasters are escalating and have become reliable props for the media, presidency, and political theatre at the same time that, (2) the policy subsystem is undergoing its most extensive changes since FEMA was formed, and (3) that a number of the pathologies of our political system are highlighted by the events."
10.2307_976765	1995	"Twentieth century comprehensive executive reorganization or reform has had dual purposes. The first is explicit, the repair of administration. The second is implicit and addresses political tensions regarding administration in a separation of powers system. In this article, Arnold asks, what is the political purpose of administrative reform envisioned within President Clinton's National Performance Review, and how does that purpose compare to those of predecessor initiatives? The approach here is to examine the Performance Review within the historical setting of predecessor efforts at comprehensive executive reorganization. Twentieth century reorganization is divided into three stages. Guided by the new apolitical theory of public administration, the first stage of executive reorganization focused on executive-centered state building after 1905. In its second stage, beginning in the 1960s, executive reorganization encouraged strengthened executive control of policy design, implementation, and assessment. In its third phase, after the mid-1970s, executive reorganization's role has changed dramatically. No longer focused on the long-term project of developing executive governance, reform gains a populist accent and becomes a means through which ""outsider"" presidents manage hostility to government. The National Performance Review is set into this third stage, its antigovernmental aspects considered, and the implications of the contemporary uses of reorganization discussed."
10.2307_976393	1989	"Voluntary organizations are approximately 10 percent the economic size of all governments in the United States, but if their money and other assets are effectively utilized, these organizations have impacts far beyond their proportionate size. On the other hand, if these groups are called upon to do what governments no longer feel they can do or to supplement what governments do, their 10 percent will gradually become just a shadow of governmental functions. President Reagan understood what philanthrophic and voluntary behavior can mean to a democratic society, but because he like almost everyone else had no real grasp of the relative sizes and roles of the voluntary and governmental sectors, he ended up trying to transfer to voluntary organizations more than was realistic. President Bush also wants to increase private initiative for the public good through encouragement of his ""thousand points of light,"" and now, if people have some clearer grasp of what voluntary organizations can and cannot do, he has a better chance to succeed. America needs both effective governments and a strong voluntary sector, but it will have neither if national leaders do not understand the differences in their functions."
10.2307_976947	1991	"Can citizen surveys be integrated into the policy, program and budget processes of local governments? Douglas J. Watson, Robert J. Juster, and Gerald W. Johnson discuss the trends and potential for using citizen surveys, as well as some drawbacks to their adoption in governmental decision making. They address these issues through a case study of the use of citizen surveys in Auburn, Alabama. Their analysis of that case indicates a positive relationship between survey results and the priorities of city council members-and leads to the generally favorable conclusion that an institutionalized citizen survey can ""provide a productive mechanism to incorporate citizen participation efficiently and productively into local government processes."""
10.2307_975572	1986	"Research on the use of information in policy decision making was conducted in an experimental laboratory setting. A general model of decision making and a more specific model of information choice are presented. The article focuses on the choice of computer versus printed information in a policy decision-making environment. Hypotheses on the relationship between information media, information choice, and decision outcome are drawn from the model. To test these propositions, 97 subjects participated in an exercise asking them to decide whether or not flextime should be implemented in a public agency. The subjects chose computer and hard-copy information sets with varying structure and information processing resources to assist them in their decision making. Information processing resources and computer literacy significantly influenced the selection of information media. Information media also affected a person's commitment to a decision."
10.2307_3110413	1984	"Political and administrative principles have a logic of their own. When explicitly embracing one principle such as efficiency, we are obliged also to embrace certain other principles which are logically implicit within that principle. In the case of efficiency, those other principles seem to be ones of satisfying people's wants and, deeper still, of respecting persons. Those principles underlie and give meaning to the efficiency principle, which therefore must yield to them in cases of conflict. In this way, our commitment to efficiency can commit us to overriding considerations of efficiency in certain circumstances."
10.2307_976769	1995	"Some 50 years after V. O. Key first asked the central question of budget allocation, we still lack a general theory of microbudgeting. This article focuses on budgetary decision making by central budget bureau analysts and describes the framework of a theory of microbudgeting based on the notion of budgets as multifaceted problems, requiring multiple rationalities for redress or solutions, and predicting that, when faced with a political imperative, budgeteers will recommend a politically rational alternative instead of one which is economically rational. The results from the experimental design and logistic regression models indicated that budgeteers do incorporate multiple rationalities into their decisions. Moreover, there is a significant difference in how inexperienced and ""seasoned"" budgeteers integrate various rationalities into their budget recommendations."
10.2307_975989	1984	"Since its inception in 1971, Amtrak policy has been an intense area of conflict between advocates of better service and those demanding reduced deficits or increased profitability. Though the lines are not always clear, one may distinguish three phases of congressional action and Amtrak response to those actions: (1) political training from 1971 to 1978, (2) managerial training from 1979 to 1980, and (3) training for service and profit from 1981 to the present. The first phase represents a power imbalance in favor of service advocates during which Amtrak used congressional cover to expand its political base of survival without improving service. The second phase represents the ascendancy of profitability guardians and efforts through Congress to impose managerial controls on Amtrak. This era is marked by sophisticated counter-control maneuvers by Amtrak through employment of its considerable technical and financial expertise to delay these control measures. The lengthy experience of conflict between service and profitability advocates evolved into a third stage where policy performance is improved by application of tight fiscal and service controls combined with delegation of important managerial discretion to Amtrak to solidify and diversity its fiscal base. The experience of Amtrak should provide an important lesson for Congress in future application of mixed enterprises for revitalization of decayed U. S. industries."
10.2307_975782	1986	What does the public think of proposed policies of comparable worth for public employees? In a telephone survey we asked 558 Georgians their opinions on whether female-dominated occupations are underpaid because of discrimination and whether a comparable worth policy for public employees is feasible and desirable. Two findings emerge from these survey responses. (1) Proponents of comparable worth outnumber opponents by a ratio of three to one. (2) Inconsistencies in responses suggest that most citizens do not have strong and stable opinions about the policy.
10.2307_977294	1990	"Sunset legislation was adopted by 36 states from 1976 to 1982. This article reviews the published research on Sunset and reports on a 1988-1989 survey of Sunset adopters. Results indicate that Sunset has resulted in some agency terminations and, more importantly, numerous substantive, procedural, and crosscutting modifications aimed at increasing accountability, efficiency, and effectiveness in state agencies. However, 12 states have ceased the use of this legislative oversight mechanism because of high monetary and temporal costs of Sunset review, intensive lobbying by vested interests, unfulfilled expectations of agency termination, low levels of citizen participation, and other perceived problems."
10.2307_3135025	1985	"Criminal organizations annually import and distribute illicit drugs worth more than $70 billion. In 1982 President Ronald Reagan established the Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Forces (OCDETF). This article, by one of the principal architects of the OCDETF program, surveys the organization of law enforcement and the history of drug enforcement in the United States. After turning to the problems of coordinating law enforcement agencies in combatting drug trafficking, the author explains the origins and development of the OCDETF program, examines the problems of its implementation, and assesses its success."
10.2307_976786	1990	"Efforts to correct underrepresentation of minorities and women in federal government agencies have been operating for a number of years, but research analyzing those efforts is usually limited to a review of governmentwide outcomes rather than variation in employment patterns among agencies. This article examines the employment of minorities and women in individual federal agencies as of September 1988. Progress achieved in racial/ethnic integration since the 1970s is noted and discussed. The analysis focuses, however, on the influence of factors including agency size, union strength, blue collar/clerical employment, and the rate of new hires on the employment of Blacks, Hispanics, and women, as well as a measure of overall racial/ethnic integration. The study finds that contextual variables explain much of the variation in the integration of federal agencies."
10.2307_976544	1992	"Can public-private partnerships be effectively evaluated? Leslie Riggin, Patrick Grasso, and Mary Westcott turned their attention to this issue in an effort by the General Accounting Office to deal with the unique challenges posed by housing and community development programs which make considerable use of these partnerships. In this article, they discuss the major obstacles to assessing the work of the partnerships and provide a framework based on nine criteria reflecting three standards: needs, process, and outcomes."
10.2307_977040	1996	"What are the big questions which should concern practitioners and students of public administration? Behn recently offered three big questions of public management, involving micromanagement, motivation, and measurement. Kirlin argues that the big questions of public administration in a democracy are different from those of public management and develops four criteria by which to judge big questions. Seven big questions of public administration in a democracy are offered, concerning: tools of collective action supporting a democratic polity; appropriate roles of nongovernmental collective action; tradeoffs between designs based on function versus geography; national versus local political arenas; when decisions are isolated from politics; balance among neutral competence, representativeness, and leadership; and societal learning."
10.2307_976924	1992	"Has the emphasis on external restraints in government ethics been effective in promoting public trust of government? Robert Roberts and Marion Doss contend that it has not, and they use the case of federal gift acceptance and related regulations as an example. Reflecting the increasing reliance on external controls, gift-acceptance regulation has become tighter and more elaborate over the years. The result has been an over concern with legalistic rules and regulations without any substantial gain in public confidence or trust. The authors contend that modern conflict of interest regulations deal more with organizational credibility than with personal integrity, and that greater effort is devoted to maintaining the political symbolism of these regulations than to the rebuilding of public trust."
10.2307_3135023	1985	"In this article the attorney general of the United States presents his view of the Supreme Court of the United States. After discussing the Founding Fathers' understanding of the power of judicial review and the court's role in the governmental process, Attorney General Meese critically reviews the court's recent rulings on federalism, criminal law, and freedom of religion. He then gives his own view of the power of judicial review and calls for a return to a ""Jurisprudence of Original Intention."""
10.2307_3110051	1996	"Are municipalities complying with judicial and constitutional guidelines for employee drug-testing programs? Cory Fine, Zane Reeves, and George Harney's national survey of cities revealed that constitutional concerns of protecting employees from unnecessary invasions of privacy, unlawful searches and seizures, self-incrimination, and loss of employment were frequently secondary to the public's perceived need for an efficiently run and safe bureaucracy. Thus, a constrained United States Supreme Court has not been able to compel municipalities to adhere to constitutionally sound drug-testing programs for their employees."
10.2307_976620	1990	"Many realms of social inquiry, particularly public administration, are in the midst of an era of unprecedented epistemological introspection, driven primarily by frustration with the prevailing positivism of applied research. Thus far, this process has yet to render coherent alternative paradigms. However, an increased emphasis on some type of systems theory is implicit in many reconceptualizations and even explicit in a few. Rebuilding the systems paradigm requires recognition of its alternative view of scientific enterprise, its ability to embrace emerging conceptual advances from other domains (such as chaos theory and applied quantum logic), and its usefulness as a basis for purposeful action."
10.2307_976974	1990	"The purpose of this article is to examine PAR's treatment of administrative ethics over the past 50 years. In the Review, these three basic issues have consistently appeared since it began publication in 1940: (1) the relative virtues of external versus internal controls over discretion; (2) the adequacy of neutral competence and responsiveness to public opinion as core values; and (3) whether or not discretion should be exercised in an effort to advance certain definitions of the public interest. In general, the 1940s focused on administrative responsibility, while the 1950s and 1960s concentrated on codes of ethics and other external controls. The following two decades were dominated by a concern with moral character and a need to improve citizens' trust in public administrators. Although PAR's contributions have been important, the authors recommend that the journal encourage discourse among its contributors."
10.2307_976065	1987	This study reports the 1986 views of 238 city managers and other chief administrative officers of California cities on what personal qualities they most admire and how they view various aspects of their work and future prospects. Some of their responses are compared with previously-surveyed executives from the private sector and the United States government.
10.2307_3135038	1985	"The Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1984 contained some of the most significant changes in the federal criminal justice system ever enacted at one time. The act overhauled the bail provisions, the sentencing system, the insanity defense, and the forfeiture laws, as well as created a number of new substantive offenses. The enactment was accomplished through years of effort by the Department of Justice to develop most of its provisions. However, the passage of the act by Congress required steady political pressure by the White House and some unusual maneuvering in the House of Representatives. This article discusses the passage and basic provisions of the act, and then focuses on the Department of Justice's role in implementing it."
10.2307_3109936	1985	"This article reports findings from an ongoing Canadian study of privatization in the residential solid waste collection industry. A cross-Canada survey conducted during 1981-82 shows that public collection agencies tend to be less efficient than contracted private companies providing similar services. Costs per household are significantly higher where cities collect their own residential solid waste. Public crews tend to be less productive, and their equipment less efficient as well. Two case studies of public to private conversions of Greater Vancouver municipalities show in detail how costs were reduced and crew productivities increased by contracting out the service."
10.2307_977170	1992	"What are Aaron Wildavsky's thoughts on his classic study of budgeting and budgetary reform? ""Political Implications of Budget Reform,"" originally published in PAR in 1961 (Volume 21, No. 1), was the the harbinger of The Politics of the Budgetary Process, a book that rates as one of the field's masterworks. Given the opportunity to revisit the article, Wildavsky offers reflections (see the italicized comments) on a variety of passages in this abridged version. Comments by Glenn Deck and Marcia Lynn Whicker follow."
10.2307_3135033	1985	"Like other public administrators involved in the delivery of urban services, police confront problems of cutback management brought on by increasing demands and declining resources. One response has been greater public-private sector cooperation in securing and maintaining public safety. More money is now spent on private sector security systems than for all public law enforcement agencies. After reviewing this trend, the author considers the problems of accountability, efficiency, and effectiveness raised by increasing public-private sector cooperation. Strategies for managing public-private sector security systems are then assessed in view of the responsibility of government to ensure security and the reality that it cannot provide all protective services itself."
10.2307_976949	1991	"What changes have taken place in state budgeting over the past two decades? Using survey data gathered for most of that period, Robert D. Lee finds a number of significant changes. In this article, he relates his findings to many of the issues and trends discussed in the budgeting literature. Lee concludes that the ""typical"" state budget system of the 1990s is very different from that found in the early 1970s."
10.2307_976618	1990	"The decline in public confidence in American institutions has taken a particularly heavy toll on the civil service. In calling for a recommitment of Americans to the values associated with public service, political leaders assume that such motives can be translated into effective and efficient bureaucratic behavior. Evidence regarding the strength of public service motives, however, is limited. This article reviews different theories for public service motivation and identifies a typology of motives associated with public service that includes rational, norm-based, and affective motives. Three propositions are put forward that describe the behavioral implications of public service motivation. The authors conclude that past research offers, at best, a poor understanding of the way to stimulate individual behavior in public organizations, and they call for more empirical research and theory development pertaining to the motivational bases of public service."
10.2307_976617	1990	"This article argues that public officials need a complex array of moral resources to exercise discretion in office. Three different realms are vital to defensible and successful discretion. These are commitments to regime accountability, personal responsibility, and prudence. No one realm of judgment provides all the resources needed to judge well in public service, and each alone has severe limits. The article uses the ideal of personal integrity as a presumption of moral responsibility to explain how individuals can and should hold all three types of commitments as public officials. Individuals of integrity should then iterate among the three realms in their judgments while using each to balance and strengthen the others. The article concludes by enumerating seven basic commitments where the three realms converge and reinforce each other."
10.2307_975904	1987	"Job evaluation is currently receiving renewed attention for its potential role in reducing pay inequities. Major constraints on the use of job evaluation for this purpose include the absence of an absolute or universal standard for assessing job worth and the difficulties involved in validating the results of job evaluation. Evidence presented in this paper indicates that the absence of an absolute standard of job worth does not preclude employers from developing their own standards for comparing jobs to reduce pay inequities in their workforces. Problems of validation are reduced when it is understood that job evaluation measures job content rather than job worth. Moreover, efforts to establish job evaluation validity should focus less on social science techniques of validation and more on removing systematic biases from the evaluation process, as well as on enhancing legal and political validity."
10.2307_976427	1994	"How can small, nonmetropolitan communities develop the capacity to improve their economies and their overall quality of life? Michael McGuire, Barry Rubin, Robert Agranoff, and Craig Richards examine the role of community-wide strategic planning as a capacity building tool. Using a matched-pair evaluation design, the authors find that small communities that have engaged in a strategic planning process possess higher levels of development capacity than a group of similar communities that have had no previous experience with strategic planning. Such planning can lead to positive political changes in the community and result in a consensus about the nature of the desired development."
10.2307_976163	1986	"This study examines the role of the New York Bureau of Municipal Research in the reorganization of Virginia government during the tenure of Governor Byrd in the 1920s. The case is then utilized to help illuminate certain neglected aspects of administrative reform and the functioning of political machines in the American context. The events of the case suggest some modifications to the conventional wisdom about antagonisms between reformers and machines, demonstrate that in important respects administrative reform and the construction of political machines are complements of the same goals, and indicate the utility of reexamining the bases of machine support."
10.2307_975361	1985	"This study compares 1981-83 research findings on public sector mentoring with a 1979 study on private sector executives conducted by Gerald Roche. Similarities and differences between mentoring in the public and private sectors are analyzed. Questions raised by the research stimulated further study of wide differences of perception that exist between mentors and their proteges about their relationships, and those perspectives are discussed."
10.2307_976233	1986	"Recent discoveries in developmental psychology have greatly increased understanding of the adult life cycle. It is now known, for example, that various stages of adult development proceed in a relatively consistent sequence and that certain tasks and issues present themselves for resolution at particular times during psychological maturation. This article analyzes the major theories of adult lifespan development, reviews some related research into the influence of various stages of development on job and organizational satisfaction, and identifies some important issues which the adult life cycle raises for public administrators and managers."
10.2307_975761	1988	"Although wide agreement exists that in democratic settings the permanent administration must be accountable to constitutionally elected or delegated political overseers, the precise terms of the agreement are controversial. The terms are especially elusive and unclear in the United States because the separation of powers system clouds any straightforward principal-agent relationship between political authorities and career officials. Competition between the political principals, indeed, makes the administrative apparatus a resource worth competing for in an effort to influence programmatic control over public policy. Some recent literature has emphasized the need for presidents to assert stringent control over the administrative apparatus in order to assure compliance with their goals. Politicization of the federal bureaucracy is justified thereby as being either in the broader public interest or at least in a president's own interest. We argue that neither is likely to be the case, and that such efforts invite retaliation on the part of Congress."
10.2307_3135026	1985	"The Supreme Court's interpretation of congressional statutes often gives new direction to law and public policy. Yet, Congress does not always respond, even when prodded to do so by the executive branch. The resale price maintenance controversy of 1983 is illustrative. Congress not only refused to reconsider the court's interpretation of antitrust laws but sought to dissuade the Department of Justice from asking the court to reconsider its prior rulings. The controversy illuminates some of the problems of intragovernmental relations and the interaction of the three branches in the formulation and implementation of legal policy."
10.2307_975586	1987	"Attention to and knowledge about public administration in Japan on this side of the Pacific Ocean seems modest, if not miniscule. For the past six years a major policy initiative called ""administrative reform"" has been pushed by political and economic leaders in Japan. Both the reform process and its results merit attention by the U. S. public administration community. Administrative reform (AR) in Japan is an exceptionally broad policy thrust that has been described by Prime Minister nakasone as ""a matter of grand national policy toward the coming century."" In terms of content, AR has addressed five major problem areas: expenditure and employment reductions (decrementalism), deregulation, devolution, privatization, and reorganization. From a process standpoint the AR initiative has been actively pursued on a strong and sustained basis since early 1981. A prestigious and politically potent Reform Commission operated during 1981-1983 and produced five successive reports that received widespread attention. A follow-on Reform Promotion Committee pushed for the implementation of reforms and fostered continued public attention to the wide range of issues included under the rubric of AR in Japan. The results of Japan's AR efforts are especially noteworthy, not only for the particular achievements in that nation but also for what AR signifies more broadly about attempts at national/societal guidance efforts. AR, whether pursued in piecemeal fashion (as in the United States) or in a more comprehensive and strategic mode (Japan), is indicative of a deliberative society- one that asserts a sense of direction and declares a degree of control over the content of political purposes."
10.2307_976497	1994	"What has the recent trend in participative decision making (PDM) to offer labor-management relations? Can it really help government agencies cope with intense political, economic, and social pressures on their service delivery and regulatory functions? Richard C. Kearney and Steven W. Hays examine the theory, assumptions, and promises of the PDM approach, factors necessary for successful PDM, and impediments to implementation. Evidence indicates that PDM provides personal benefits to employees, as well as human resource management-related and task-related benefits to organizations, although the effects of PDM on the quality and quantity of outputs are not certain. The authors conclude with cautious optimism that PDM can contribute positively to employee, organizational, and public interests."
10.2307_977291	1990	"The use of performance measures in allocating resources is an old problem that is receiving renewed attention in democratic countries. Efforts to budget for results are underway in Australia, Canada, Denmark, Sweden, and the United Kingdom. This article reports on developments in each of these countries. It explains why the current emphasis is on productivity improvement and performance targets, and it relates these innovations to attempts to alter the culture of public management from compliance with preset controls to incentives for managerial flexibility."
10.2307_977225	1989	Problems and demands of increased air travel in the United States pose new challenges for the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to develop the management capacity to fulfill demands for safe air travel. Several proposals to reorganize FAA are under consideration in Congress. This article analyzes organizational alternatives and the implicit challange to the ability of federal management to provide operational services to the public. Implications for assignment of service functions within the government sector are analyzed.
10.2307_975590	1987	"In the American federal system local governments occupy the hub of public service. It has been predicted that the Monell-Owen-Thiboutot decisions by the United States Supreme Court in 1978 and 1980 would invite a landslide of lawsuits against these governments. Analysis of a national sample of approximately 1,700 lawsuits litigated in federal district courts between 1977 and 1983 indicates that increases in litigation have not been as pervasive as previously speculated. Where they have occured, the lawsuits have been generally confined to a few specific areas of services in cities and counties including police, judicial, and regulatory subsystems, and the courts have not responded liberally to prayers for monetary relief."
10.2307_3135008	1985	"This paper is designed to provide a conceptual framework for the employment of decision support systems (DSS) in the field of disaster management. This framework will incorporate the following dimensions: (1) definition of DSS and its differences from MIS in the public sector; (2) stages in the life cycle of a disaster and the types of events occurring within stages; (3) a framework for conceptualizing decision making in disaster management at various levels-operational, tactical, and strategic; (4) a matrix of information and modeling needs of planners and decision makers within each stage; and (5) selected examples of DSS applications and prototypes which have been developed on microcomputers which will serve to illustrate the role of DSS in the disaster management."
10.2307_976904	1988	"This article investigates the state of ethics education in graduate programs of public administration and policy. A survey conducted in November 1986 examines three curricular issues: (1) the goals of ethics education; (2) the ethical standards to which students are exposed; and (3) approaches to ethical decision making within a public management context. Findings indicate that the primary goal of ethics education is to improve the moral judgment of students. Ethics educators expose their students to ethical standards of both the Bureaucratic and Democratic Ethos. However, while ethics instructors believe the Bureaucratic Ethos characterizes the field, they tend to stress the Democratic standards more. Instructors emphasize a consideration of both moral principles and a weighing of the probable consequences in their approaches to ethical decision making. Questions concerning the status of ethics education within the field and implications for future research are also posed."
10.2307_976992	1988	"This article attempts to define followership in the workplace. Of particular focus is the federal worker and how he or she compares to workers in other governmental and private sector settings. Eight empirically derived dimensions of followership are identified: (1) partnership; (2) motivation; (3) competence; (4) sense of humor; (5) dependability; (6) positive working relations; (7) speaking up; and (8) proper comportment. These dimensions are associated with workers who are most productive and are viewed to be the best performers on supervisors' teams. When federal workers were compared to nonfederal workers, the federal workers were found to score lower in four followership dimensions: partnership; motivation; competence; and proper comportment. The lag of federal subordinates in these identified dimensions of followership, which are tied to productivity and performance, are explored both in terms of possible causes and implications for federal work settings. It is suggested that the differences are attributable to organizational size and the less personal, more formal characteristics that are inherent in large organizations."
10.2307_976633	1991	"What are the implications of the simultaneous trends toward public sector unionization and privatization? Katherine Naff finds the two trends have collided at the federal level, with agency management emerging from the conflict ""clearly in charge"" of decisions related to privatization. While the opposition of unions to contracting out is unlikely to change, Naff sees a potential reduction in the conflict in both the less fervent support of privatization in Washington and the possibility of legislation that might establish a means for union participation in the relevant decision making process."
10.2307_976428	1994	"What is the role of government in data collection and dissemination? The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) is involved in regulating the flow of government information in at least four ways: its participation in the development and implementation of government information and statistical policy; the setting of budgets for centralized statistical agencies (CESTAs); the forms review process; and control of the information collection budget. With special attention to CESTAs, the author analyzes OMB's performance of these four responsibilities during Reagan's administration and provides a short overview of recent changes in the federal government's information policy. The author concludes that during the Reagan administration OMB tried to tighten the flow of government data. He suggests more attention should be paid to the social-goods nature of information when considering the role of government in data collection and dissemination."
10.2307_976307	1986	"This paper develops a two-stage model of the decision to contract out. The first stage is the choice of whether to produce publicly provided services internally, externally, or to reduce costs as well as potential cost savings, which depend primarily on the nature of a particular service. The second stage in the contracting decision is the choice of sector with which to contract-other governments, private firms, or nonprofit organizations. Sector choice is primarily influenced by the nature of the service and the availability of suppliers in the different sectors. The model is used to analyze the current contracting patterns of 1,780 cities and counties from across the United States."
10.2307_976342	1993	"How is the management of nonprofit organizations affected by the growing partnership between government and nonprofit organziations? Richard Heimovics, Robert Herman, and Carole L. Jurkiewicz Coughlin examine the actions of effective chief executive officers of nonprofit organizations in their leadership role as they respond to the changes and stresses in this partnership. Using resource dependence theory, the authors find that effective executives are more likely to employ a political frame as part of a more complex multipleframe perspective than a group of executives not deemed especially effective. Such findings, according to the authors, explain how effective executives work ""entrepreneurially"" to find resources and revitalize missions for their organizations."
10.2307_3109966	1985	"Funding caps are intended to ration public support for the services provided through not-for-profit organizations and to encourage the recipients to seek other supplemental sources of revenue. Program goals and cap formulas are devised, however, in advance of the award of funds and without foreknowledge of the behavioral responses of recipients and the external circumstances which will determine program effectiveness. The selection by program sponsors of specific cap provisions is subject to constrained choices such as support limits and duration, and monitoring and enforcement rules. To assess the effectiveness of a capping formula, a case study is presented of a New York State program with an explicit cap mechanism. The findings indicate that the assisted organizations did seek out new revenue sources under the cap stimulus. Their progress toward achieving self-sufficiency was affected, however, by unexpected reductions in federal funding programs and the greater competition for alternative revenue sources. Some alternative capping formulas are evaluated to assess their suitability in these changed circumstances."
10.2307_3110345	1995	"Is there a ""troublesome cleft"" between political science and public administration or a problematic alliance? Examining the historical rise of political science and public administration from the late 19th century to the 1930s shows that political science has played an important role in defining the intellectual space of public administration. Political science historically arose as a project of liberal reform, and public administration was supposed to be part of that project. The technicist and antipolitical bias of public administration was inherent in the ontology of a positivistic political science. Together, they supplied the ideological and institutional apparatus for the transformation of the American liberal tradition and the rise of the administrative state. Re-examining the relationship between politics and administration/political science and public administration requires a critical examination of the theories and methods of both disciplines."
10.2307_976230	1986	"Since the enactment of the Freedom of Information Act in 1966, the United States has changed from an industrial to an information economy. This metamorphosis and changing technological conditions pose new challenges to the successful operation of the FOIA in the years ahead. Some of these have implications for the prospect of public access to government information beyond the immediate provisions of the FOIA. This overview examines the development, adaptation, and future of the FOI Act."
10.2307_976727	1994	"Monkey wrench or helping hand? Are the efforts of interest groups and policy advocates constraining health and social service organizations from responding to changing client needs and expectations? Robert C. Myrtle and Kathleen H. Wilber claim that they do. Furthermore, they claim that these constraints have created a dynamic where ""trying harder to make the delivery system work"" has become a driving force in efforts to improve service delivery. Yet, despite continued efforts, improved functioning of delivery systems remains an illusive ideal. Using the example of the delivery of services to the elderly, they argue that unless policy makers and advocates begin to focus on the dynamic relationships among organizations, inter-organizational fields, and service delivery networks, systems development will continue to be an unobtainable and perhaps even a dysfunctional goal. Without a better understanding of transactional relationships between service delivery components, the authors argue, health and social service organizations will continue ""to try harder to do better"" rather than inventing innovative ways to meet the needs of multiproblem persons."
10.2307_977041	1996	"What is the role of the growing public management certification programs? The issue has not traditionally received much attention in the public administration literature. Despite this oversight, certification programs have been created in 16 states since the early 1980s. This article provides a status report on the accomplishments of these 16 Certified Public Manager (CPM) programs. After providing an overview of the debate surrounding the certification question, the growth and development of the programs are described. Their successes and failures in attracting, retaining, and certifying public managers are summarized, and suggestions are provided on how the certification movement might be accelerated. In particular, it is argued that the interests of the public management community might be served if CPM and Master of Public Administration programs were to cooperate more aggressively."
10.2307_977328	1989	"It is argued that the Founders' intentions are most correctly interpreted through the virtue-centered paradigm of civic humanism, with its attendant ""ethics of character."" Such an interpretation has major implications for the civic obligations of public servants. Among them are obligations to encourage civic autonomy; to govern by persuasion; to transcend the corruptions of power; and to become civic exemplars. Because these vital civic responsibilities have been neglected in recent years, it is argued that public administration should take the lead in promoting them as standards of good government."
10.2307_975776	1986	"Since its inception, in addition to its primary budget role, BoB/OMB has been considered the Federal government's preeminent management agency. Concern about its capacity to provide management direction for the executive branch has, however, been a persistent theme throughout much of its history. This issue has gained salience in recent years as a large and growing number of commentators have concluded that-insofar as its role as the ""eyes and ears"" of the president in managerial affairs is concerned-OMB has fallen short both of original expectations and of the tasks at hand. This article provides an account of the evolution of BoB/OMB's management function, highlighting recurrent problems which have hindered the effectiveness of the agency's ""M-side."" It sheds light on the likely viability of five current proposals to strengthen the federal government's central management structure."
10.2307_976345	1993	"What influence has entrepreneurial budgeting had on budget reform? Dan Cothran examines three new approaches to budgeting that use decentralization in an effort to stimulate entrepreneurial behavior by public administrators. One method is used by some local governments in the United States, the second is used by the national governments of several industrial democracies, and the third is proposed as a way to improve U. S. defense budgeting. After top policy makers have established their overall control through broad guidelines, states the author, the new methods decentralize actual management decisions much as a market does by providing agency managers with incentives to be both efficient and effective. In addition, the new methods aim to make administrators more accountable for the results of their decisions by monitoring actual performance more than in the past."
10.2307_977181	1995	"Strategic planning has been touted as one of the ""hot"" management innovations in the public sector, promising managers the benefits of a highly structured, future-oriented management technique taken directly from the best-run business corporations. Little has been known, however, about the actual experience of public agencies with strategic planning. Frances Berry and Barton Wechsler conducted a national survey of state agencies to determine rates of utilization, types of strategic planning processes used in different agencies, and strategic planning objectives and outcomes. About 60 percent of agencies responding were using some type of strategic planning, and an additional 9 percent planned to do so in the future. Its initiation has been primarily a decision of individual agency leaders, hoping to set program and policy direction, to emulate an exemplary practice drawn from the private sector, and/or to respond to budgetary pressures. The most commonly employed model of strategic planning used in state agencies builds on elements of the widely discussed Harvard Policy Model. While a third of the states used a five-year time frame for their strategic plans, most still use one-to-four years as the plan horizon, although this appeared to be lengthening as strategic planning and budgeting are integrated. Strategic planning seemed to undergo an evolutionary development process, including being folded into broader quality management programs. Agency leaders responded with varied but largely positive perceptions of strategic planning's impact on a variety of important internal and external outcomes. Overall, strategic planning can be described as a successful public sector management innovation."
10.2307_975477	1987	Two hundred years ago Alexander Hamilton raised a question not answered in the Constitution: What is the appropriate role of the federal government in the economic and social development of the nation? His actions raised a second question: To what extent is strong public administration needed? These questions again confront the nation as it moves into a new international economic and technological order. Supply-side management and privatization would further limit the role of public administration in national affairs. An investment approach to public policy and administration would strengthen the role of public administration in American government.
10.2307_975517	1988	"This paper explores the political implications of the use of public enterprises at the municipal level, using survey data from Illinois cities. The dependent variables include the number of enterprises cities have, the dependence of cities on income from enterprises, and the choice of which enterprises to provide. The paper explores why some cities have enterprises to handle parking, garbage, and economic development. Conclusions are that cities experiencing fiscal stress avoid enterprises, and more-reformed cities use enterprises more frequently. Particular enterprises have their own political and financial characteristics and are more likely to be used by cities with matching political characteristics. The paper concludes with suggestions for future research."
10.2307_976993	1988	"Domestic technology transfer has become a highly discussed issue lately, for it is one of the central elements in the debate on U. S. competitiveness. Policy initiatives, especially those of the last decade, have sought to promote cooperation between research done in university and governmental laboratories and its utilization by industry. This article reviews recent developments in public policy for domestic technology transfer and presents results of data developed from Phase II of the National Comparative R&D Laboratory Project (NCRDP), the second stage of an ongoing project aimed at determining the performance and sources of influence in the United States's R&D laboratory system. Findings from the data are discussed within the framework of recent policy initiatives."
10.2307_975578	1986	"This paper reports on research assessing the applicability of artificial intelligence technology in providing decision support to public managers. A prototyping design strategy was used with microcomputers to construct decision aids for operating managers (i. e., desk top and street level bureaucrats) in personnel administration and emergency management. A philosophical view of the use of information technology in extending cognitive processes is presented. This includes the role of artificial intelligence as employed in expert systems. It is observed that the accelerating rate of technological development permits heretofore separate functions of the builder, designer, expert, and user to be embodied in one experienced person, thus permitting prototyping to become the design strategy for building decision support systems employing AI technology."
10.2307_975576	1986	"The development and use of information systems is becoming a high priority in many public organizations, but methods for this development have been designed largely for use in the private sector. These systems development approaches are often inappropriate for the public sector, for they fail to address the differences between public and private organizations. This article addresses this problem by dealing with the theoretical and practical aspects of developing both management information systems (MIS) and decision support systems (DSS) for public management. It introduces the reader to the concepts and methods of information systems development, provides a review of the relevant literature, describes the primary approach used for information systems design and implementation in the private sector, and identifies the problems associated with its use in public organizations. An information systems development method appropriate for public management, the Iterative systems Development Cycle, is proposed and applied to a public organization."
10.2307_976635	1991	"How do institutional arrangements affect the management of environmental resource systems? The administration of irrigation systems, fisheries, grazing lands, and other 'common-pool resources' is an increasingly important public sector activity. Relying on a cross-national study of thirty-six irrigation systems, Shui Yan Tang provides some insights into the effectiveness of alternative means for organizing water appropriation and maintenance tasks. Building on a distinction between bureaucratic and community systems, Tang finds reliance on bureaucratic arrangements to be less effective in managing water resource appropriation to farmers. Community arrangements, in contrast, proved more sensitive to the local needs of end users. While noting the potential relevance of bureaucratic structures in the construction, production, and distribution of common-pool resources, Tang's work indicates the importance of considering non-bureaucratic alternatives when designing delivery systems for such resources."
10.2307_976802	1992	What are the differences between the Canadian and American approaches to conflict-of-interest laws? Andrew Stark follows Rohr's example in the study of comparative ethics by focusing on three issues: each country's use of statutory and non-statutory means for dealing with conflict-of-interest problems; differences regarding questions of postemployment rules; and the general attitude of each nation toward the influence of private interest in the judgements of public servants. Stark finds many of these differences are attributable to the structural distinction between a U. S. system based on the separation of powers and the British-type system found in Canada.
10.2307_975994	1984	"Most electric and gas utilities provide free or low-cost energy audits to their residential customers, usually as part of the federal Residential Conservation Service (RCS). RCS programs in the few states where competent evaluations were done show incremental energy savings for participants of approximately 3-5 percent. Assessing the economic worth of RCS programs is particularly difficult (and very site-specific) because of factors such as future fuel prices, differences between marginal and average fuel prices, discount rates, and differences in how programs are implemented. The meager evidence on RCS program cost-effectiveness suggests that the economic benefits are generally small."
10.2307_977204	1996	"Is there a demand for a representative bureaucracy? Prior research on representative bureaucracy assumes that it is a good to be supplied that will result in a better-served, more-satisfied clientele. If anyone should care about the representativeness of a service delivery agency, it should be persons living with AIDS (PLWAs), whose lives can be extended and improved by taking advantage of services offered. Gregory S. Thielemann and Joseph Stewart, Jr., surveyed 510 PLWAs in Dallas and found that, although there are some significant differences between groups, PLWAs clearly exhibit a demand for a representative bureaucracy, particularly among personnel who actually provide services. These findings demonstrate the importance of representative bureaucracy and have implications specifically for the provision of AIDS services."
10.2307_976874	1990	"This article commemorates the fiftieth anniversary of the American Society for Public Administration and is a part of the Public Administration Review's Golden Anniversary celebration as well. By reviewing ASPA's past, as well as addressing its future challenges, it seeks to focus attention on America's preeminent association for practitioners and scholars of public administration."
10.2307_975475	1987	"The executive budget, drawn from European experience, was a keystone in the Progressive agenda of governmental reform at the beginning of the twentieth century. The original proposal, implying a virtual executive monopoly of the budget, appeared as a paradox in the United States constitutional context of separation of powers. A modified version, accepted in 1921, which retained legislative initiative in appropriations, however, became an accepted and integral element of the sharing of power between executive and legislative branches. Its legitimacy was justified by values of neutral competence, executive leadership, and responsibility in government. In recent years the ambiguities of the concept have come to the surface, and though the executive budget exists in form, its meaning and significance are open to question."
10.2307_976308	1986	"Incrementalism, as the standard model of the budget process, has been under attack for several years. One line of criticism is that the concept ignores important structural characteristics of the process, thereby calling into question its descriptive and prescriptive power. Increasingly, the courts are influencing public spending; nevertheless, theoretical or empirical accounts of the roles of courts in the budget process are quite limited. This paper suggests how courts may affect budgeting-particularly at state and local levels-and the ramifications for incremental theory of judicial intervention in the budget process."
10.2307_976989	1988	"In post-industrial societies, human resources assume a fundamental importance that changes the traditional personnel administration agenda from operations management to management of a strategic resource. The role of human capital in post-industrial public organizations is assessed together with the impact on public sector human resource management. Government personnel managers face a particular challenge associated with the strategic management of the public workforce and the management of a strategic resource."
10.2307_977340	1989	"This article considers whether the individual responsibilities of bureaucratic officials provide a useful means for reconciling the tension between democracy and bureaucracy. Three questions central to the proper definition of bureaucratic responsibility are examined: (1) What is the relation of bureaucratic responsibility to the view that proper bureaucratic conduct is essentially a matter of ethics and morality? (2) If the appeal to moral values does not ordinarily offer an acceptable guide to proper bureaucratic conduct, upon what principles does a theory of bureaucratic responsibility rest? (3) What issues arise in putting responsibility into practice within a complex organizational setting? The article concludes that a democratic, process-based conception offers the most useful way of thinking about the responsibilities of bureaucratic officials."
10.2307_976166	1986	"This article examines the long struggle for a merit-based civil service in the Dominican Republic. That nation's historical and administrative heritage, along with economic and policy considerations, have conspired to defeat merit-based reform efforts. The Dominican case is used to consider the relevancy of merit-based civil service in developing countries generally. A conclusion is that while the Dominican Republic has an unusual administrative and political history in Latin America and the Caribbean, and while serious obstacles remain, rapid social, political, and economic changes since 1965 have made the country more receptive to merit practices."
10.2307_977229	1989	"In the 1960s and 1970s, new forms of federal ""social regulation"" were implemented to help assure environmental protection, worker safety and health, consumer product safety, and equal employment opportunity. While many positive gains ensued, the response was not entirely favorable. Businesses, many individuals and interest groups, and ultimately a new conservative national administration were concerned about uneven enforcement, excessive paperwork demands, agency incompetence, agency budget growth, and what was viewed as inordinate cost burdens placed on private firms. Some of these forms of social regulation were scaled back considerably in the 1980s, including the U. S. Department of Labor's Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP), which is charged with assuring nondiscrimination in federal contractor employment patterns. However, the race and sex composition of the nation's private sector labor force can be much more representative of the population as a whole if the OFCCP's regulatory tools are employed. In the final analysis, presidential and congressional leadership is the key to achieving fair workforce patterns among federal contractors."
10.2307_976725	1994	"How can governments (and communities) reduce susceptibility to losses in natural disasters? Can formally adopted plans be used as a tool in the policy-making process? Raymond J. Burby and Linda C. Dalton link these two issues in an analysis which uses empirical data gathered from 176 local governments in five states to show that land-use plans can serve as a vehicle for limiting development of areas at risk from natural hazards. The authors demonstrate that without state mandates requiring both plans and attention to natural hazards, a number of local governments will ignore opportunities for risk reduction through planning and development-limiting land use regulations. Their findings have important implications for administrative theory and practice because they provide systematic evidence that the rational consideration of community needs and policy alternatives involved in preparation of land use plans can produce tangible community benefits, and that such benefits may not be realized without state requirements for local planning."
10.2307_976168	1986	"This study examines how administrative, budgetary, and service delivery practices are conducted under an ""integrated"" organizational arrangement. It focuses on the organization and dispersion of authority and the related distribution of tasks at regional and local levels. The purpose is to analyze the extent and the ways in which services become integrated on a day-to-day basis. One conclusion is that integrated administrative and local service structures are necessary but not sufficient conditions for successful integration of service delivery. Related is how organizational structures in human services agencies may facilitate discretionary decisions of service workers and foster their commitment to integrated services."
10.2307_976543	1992	"How effective has management by objectives (MBO) been in the public sector, and why? Robert Rodgers and John Hunter offer the results of a meta-analysis of 70 studies of MBO adoptions in both the public and private sectors, and their findings indicate that MBO has had a positive impact on productivity in all the public sector agencies studied. These studies indicate that the greatest gains were generated in agencies where top management was highly committed to the approach. Their analysis also shows that MBO has been as effective in the public sector and it has been in the private sector."
10.2307_976922	1992	"Is there a theory that can explain the workaday values of public administration practitioners? Building on the notion of public administrators as artisans, Charles Goodsell offers the foundations of an approach that focuses attention on ""microcosmic"" level of government actions. Borrowing from the field of aesthetics and the theory of art, he highlights the craft, style, form, material, and creativity of public administrators. Goodsell posits this framework as a normative theory that can supplement the more broadly based concerns with efficiency, economy, and accountability."
10.2307_3109934	1985	"To implement mixed-sector governmental programs effectively, they must often be conducted as joint undertakings by a government ""client"" and a private contractor. In practice, this means that provisions are needed to facilitate active involvement of government managers in the operations of these programs. A broadly applicable way to implement this J-model prescription-award fee contracting-is described and justified in this paper."
10.2307_976672	1994	"What is different about politics and administration? The answer is found in the ways public officials experience and think about their work rather than in their behavior, according to John Nalbandian. Here, he differentiates ""constellations of logic"" that separate politics from administration and suggests that successful council-staff relations in local government depend upon the presence of a ""translator,"" usually the chief administrative officer. After outlining the elected official's role as an arbiter of values and community builder, Nalbandian suggests that professional staff's success in recognizing council needs-as the governing body experience them-and then configuring staff support within that context."
10.2307_3135034	1985	"Lawyers and litigation have had a profound impact on environmental management since the environmental ""revolution"" of the 1970s and the advent of new federal legislation written as the virtual equivalent to regulations. Litigation has been and is important in clarifying these complex laws, but can be either obstructive and confrontational or cooperative and more reasonable. The environmental revolution brought confrontation as well as clarification as competing groups sought to understand the broad implications of government command and control. This may have been inevitable, given major changes in areas of corporate decision making and the increased role of the lawyer and the lawyer-manager. But liability exposure has grown immensely in recent years, and so has the complexity of the regulatory process. By being aware of the liability exposure and working toward longer range regulatory avoidance, true environmental management can be practiced, focusing on process rather than on individual permits."
10.2307_976748	1991	"Why are some businesses unwilling or reluctant to sell to governments? In a survey of 3,282 business firms, Susan A. MacManus finds a generally negative attitude toward doing business with governments. When asking for specifics, MacManus found the five most-cited problems were slow payments, narrow bid specifications, difficulty in making contact with end-users, excessive paperwork, and competition from other firms. Firms with contracts cited different problems than those without contracts, and responses varied by type of product or service being provided."
10.2307_3110409	1984	"This research considers the issues involved when grant-in-aid programs are shifted from the national government to the states, with special attention to the question of redistribution. The particular focus is on the small cities Community Development Block Grant program before and after state takeover. Certain theoretical literature suggests that redistribution will be more difficult to achieve as the decision-making arena is narrowed. Indeed, preliminary evidence from national data and from a more detailed study of one state shows that a state-managed small cities block grant program is likely to spread funds widely and to emphasize public works projects as opposed to housing rehabilitation and community services."
10.2307_977168	1992	"How have development administrators handled the need for institutional change over the past four decades? Institutions are regarded as central to the success of Third World development efforts, and over the years four different approaches have been used to deal with that need. As Arthur S. Goldsmith shows, early efforts at specific institution building were followed by a broader strategy of institution development. More recently, attention has turned to the new institutionalist approach. It stresses (1) the need to work on providing individuals with appropriate incentives, and (2) strategies based on the need to create sustainable institutions that link development programs and their constituents over the long term."
10.2307_976724	1994	Did you ever wonder how an idea so peculiar as the politics-administration dichotomy ever became deeply embedded in American public administration? Alasdair Roberts' fascinating historical analysis indicates that the Rockefeller philanthropies contributed significantly to the dichotomy's entrenchment in the 1920s and 1930s. They promoted their own agenda by supporting leaders of the public administration community who demonstrated commitment to the dichotomy. Roberts suggests that the dichotomy persists partly because it serves contemporary administrative practice in much the way it aided the philanthropies earlier.
10.2307_976573	1989	"The scientific basis for operating U. S. democracy should be switched from pluralist theory to an updated version of eighteenth century liberal theory. Developed in the field of political science around mid-century, pluralist theory encourages special interest politics and is thoroughly discredited by conservative public-choice theory. Accepted as a set of traditional values now, liberal theory links appropriate distributions and uses of political power to collective morality and collective prosperity. To realize its advantages for explaining and improving political practice, liberal theory must replace pluralist theory as scientific theory."
10.2307_976375	1996	"How should public organizations respond to the current ""crisis of trust?"" Outlining a conception of institutional trustworthiness, this article explores the conditions that increase the difficulty of achieving it, suggests a basis for designing organizational relationships that recover it, and broaches the problem of assuring institutional constancy as a critical requirement. Institutional constancy will be considered in greater depth in a forthcoming issue."
10.2307_975865	1984	"Theories of market failure, capture, and deterrence emphasize conflicting interests to the neglect of bounded rationality problems associated with the dynamic, complex technological issues of social regulation. This essay explores the problems and potentially catastrophic consequences of limited corporate capacity to deal with such issues. Problems of corporate reliability are traced to recurrent ignorance of new control techniques and to the inevitable deterioration of control systems to keep undesirable side effects within socially acceptable limits. Problems of responsiveness grow out of the necessarily limited attention of corporate experts to amorphous, evolving social concerns. Regulatory methods to enhance reliability and responsiveness are considered. Given that corporations and agencies are both error-prone, the most important policy implication is that reliability and responsiveness depend on adequate redundancy, duplication and overlap between public and private components of expert systems, not on optimal rule-making procedures."
10.2307_975486	1984	"A tax exempt lease is an arrangement similar in economic substance to an installment purchase. The lessor extends credit to a municipality in exchange for the right to use an asset for a period of time, during or at the end of which the lessee has the option to purchase the property less than its market value. Each payment of rent is allocated between principal and interest. The interest is tax exempt to the lessor, as if it were interest on a conventional instrument of debt. For tax purposes the lessee (the municipality) is regarded as the owner of the property. As a consequence, the lessor is not eligible for the tax benefits, such as accelerated depreciation and the investment tax credit, which are currently under attack in Congress. The objective of this paper is to provide a framework for analyzing tax exempt leases. It evaluates, and attempts to put into perspective, each of the main advantages that have been ascribed to leasing. Leasing enables a municipality to obtain funds at low interest rates by tying finance costs to the purchase of property, to offset interest costs with arbitrage earnings, to circumvent debt limitations, to avoid bond referenda, and to reduce debt issue costs."
10.2307_976972	1990	"This essay reviews the principal literary activities of Luther Gulick, a distinguished pioneer of modern management thought and the only such figure concerned mainly with public administration. Among an unusually extensive and varied body of writings, spanning seven decades, special attention is paid to a sizeable number of still impressively relevant books and articles."
10.2307_976469	1992	"What have been the trends in state indebtedness over the past four decades? James Regens and Thomas Lauth offer an empirical overview of state indebtedness patterns from 1950 through 1989. Their findings indicate that states rely more on long-term than short-term debt, and that there has been a dramatic shift during that period from reliance on general-obligation debt to nonguaranteed debt. They also find that the increase in long-term indebtedness has been relatively gradual during this period when measured in constant dollars. Regens and Lauth also consider the extent to which state governments are relying on these various types of debts for raising revenue. While the role of state indebtedness as a proportion of total state revenues has increased from 44 percent in 1950 to 50 percent in 1989, the amount of that debt derived from long-term nonguaranteed loans has grown significantly from just over 7 percent of state revenues in 1950 to nearly 40 percent in 1989. They discuss some of the normative implications such trends might have for states, especially questions related to intergenerational equity."
10.2307_976747	1991	"What are the implications of the Supreme Court's Missouri v. Jenkins decision for American public administration? In that landmark 1990 decision, the Court affirmed a federal district court order imposing local property tax increases for Kansas City, Missouri, residents as a means of raising funds for desegregation efforts by the local school district. In this article, Rosemary O'Leary and Charles Wise examine the significance of that decision for the ""new partnership"" that has emerged in recent decades between judges and administrators. Based on interviews with residents and school district personnel as well as archival and legal research, the authors find that the decision has recast the role of public administrators operating under court orders. In this case, court decisions empowered and legitimized actions by school administrators, as well as enhanced resources available to the school system. Equally important were the decision's impacts on the ability of local administrators to set priorities and control implementation. In addition, interorganization relations have become problematic and new accountability mechanisms pose constant challenges. O'Leary and Wise also observe that by sanctioning court-ordered taxation, Missouri v. Jenkins may have also expanded the new partnership into a ""new triumvirate"" that includes legislative bodies. Whatever form these new relationships take, however, it is clear to the authors that the courts are the senior partners."
10.2307_976247	1988	"Recruitment of key executives through professional search firms is a longstanding private sector practice that has been adopted more slowly in the public sector. Using survey research, analysis of job announcements for city and town managers, and interviews with representatives of major executive search firms, the authors of this article examine patterns of search firm activity in local government, the attitudes of key officials toward the use of such firms, and evidence suggesting trends for the future. Their findings indicate that the use of search firms in local government is likely to continue to grow."
10.2307_3109933	1985	"The theory of incremental budgeting holds important implications for evaluating the success of capital budget projects. Guardian and spender role conflicts influence the performance of complex federal projects, such as urban rail transit. Where one or more of these roles is weak or absent, reciprocal expectations are destroyed and the project tends to suffer construction delays and cost overruns. The case of Dade Metrorail illustrates the importance of tailoring oversight incentives to the history of role conflict. Where the history of conflict is long and characterized by shifts in the balance of power, regulatory remedies should capitalize on the resultant climate of mutual trust by making only marginal changes in roles and contracts. But where these roles are missing, the task is novel, or conflict is characterized by persistent domination of one role, more extreme regulatory remedies are required to improve project performance. The execution of regulatory policies must include the recognition that success depends upon the degree of trust and communication between project guardians and spenders."
10.2307_975476	1987	"The growing use of computers by government agencies at all levels of the U. S. federal system raises fundamental questions of significance for the Constitution. Chief among these are whether computing will upset the delicate balances struck by the Constitution among the branches of government in the separation of powers doctrine, among the levels of government in federalism, between government and the people in the Amendments, and between various factions in the political system in the electoral process. These balances, which are under assault daily from computerization, currently tend to be affected primarily at the margins, as when computerization provides temporary advantage or disadvantage to one branch, level, or agency of government, or to one political faction over another. While computerization is not presently a fundamental threat to constitutional arrangements, it could be-especially with regard to personal privacy and political elections and, to a lesser extent, with regard to the separation of powers and federalism. Vigilance in the form of aware, informed leaders buttressed with systematic, empirical research on the interrelations of computers and the constitution could provide a powerful counterbalance to threats that stem from the growing computerization of government and the society."
10.2307_3110244	1995	"What exactly is the goal of a regulatory moratorium? Have the goals ever been achieved? On January 28, 1992, President Bush imposed a 90-day regulatory moratorium on new federal regulations. According to the White House, this moratorium was aimed at reducing the burden of government regulation on the economy. This regulatory moratorium seemed to be in response to a number of concerns by the administration. First, it provided a partial scapegoat to the overall sluggish economy that refused to show any signs of strong growth. Second, President Bush, who led the Task Force for Regulatory Relief under the Reagan administration, was perceived by many to be reregulating America (Rauch, 1991). By imposing the moratorium on regulations, the Bush administration could hypothetically deflect concerns about the economy, slow down the number of regulatory actions, and show how serious it was in its fight against overregulation. By providing information and statistics on regulatory output for several high-producing regulatory agencies, Scott Furlong examines the impact of the moratorium on the regulatory agencies' output and probes the question of whether such moratoria can make a difference."
10.2307_975766	1988	"In many functional areas, policy delivery by the states is extensively structured by federal actions and guidelines. Federal officials in administrative regions supervise the implementation of intergovernmental policy. Since this relationship is likely to continue in the future, the impact that federal managers have on state enforcement activity warrants examination. This study proposes a framework to judge the success of national administrative regions in convincing states to accept responsibility for implementing federal programs. Successful policy supervision is seen as the ability to use communication, treasury, authority, and organization tools. The application of this analogy to the delivery of environmental policy reveals why some federal regions are more successful than others in managing relationships with the states."
10.2307_977144	1993	"What is the state of administrative reform in Britain, Australia, and New Zealand? R. C. Mascarenhas provides an overview of the approaches to public administrative reform taken in those parliamentary systems. Similar in some respects to each other and to the experiences of U. S. government during the Reagan-Bush years, the reforms also reflect differences in design and implementation. Mascarenhas points out some of the problems, including the tendency toward a ""picket fence mentality."""
10.2307_975519	1988	"This inquiry concludes that America's inefficient military base structure results less from demands for collectively provided private benefits than from an aversion to private profit at the public's expense. This finding is encouraging. It should be possible to design procedures that would permit properties with highly valued alternative uses to be identified and promptly allocated to those uses and, at the same time, to insure the propriety of such transfers. That the conduct of the public's business is or should be invested with special moral values is undoubtedly obvious to most mainstream students of public administration; to anyone indoctrinated in the logic of economic analysis, however, such a notion may not be easily grasped. Consequently, it is the author's hope that this essay will contribute not only to an understanding of the relevance and utility of economic logic, but also in a modest way to a more complete specification of the limits of this mode of reasoning."
10.2307_977249	1996	"Has British Public Administration lost its sense of coherent identity? This article describes the major changes of the postwar period. It describes the decline of traditional Public Administration with its distaste for theory, focus on institutions, and predilection for administrative engineering. The 1970s heralded the era of eclecticism with the British ""behavioral revolution"" and the advent of organization theory and policy analysis. The 1980s saw these fashions wane under the impact of New Right ideology. If rational choice was a minority interest, the new public management swept all before it. But Public Administration was an observer, not a participant in the rush to reinvent Whitehall. Its institutional base also weakened. But all is not doom and gloom in the 1990s. The Economic and Social Research Council invested significant research funds in Public Administration and the future lies in our own hands. We must produce better quality research and prove we can contribute to understanding the changing institutions of government."
10.2307_975470	1987	"Americans with their practical, tinkering spirit have used administrative reorganization to cope with ambiguities in the Constitution by lubricating and adjusting governmental machinery without tackling constitutional revision head-on. Reflecting changes in social, economic, and political conditions and ideology; reorganizations at national, state, and local levels have stressed popular representation, neutral expertise, and executive leadership. These thrusts vary in achieving governmental goals of accountability and competence. Four former and current ""proverbs of reorganization"" dominate discussion. These proverbs focus on reorganization as economy, as management reform, as politics, and as ideology. Reorganization's use to adjust constitutional machinery without amending it and the proverbs surrounding reorganization both have implications for administrative research and practice."
10.2307_976823	1995	"Aaron Wildavsky was one of the most innovative and prolific scholars in the fields of political science, public policy, and public administration of our time. He wrote or coauthored 30 books and more than 200 published articles, essays, and book chapters. His work spanned a period of 40 years, and its perspectives encompassed an enormous range of areas of study, issues, and topics. Among his books, the classic The Politics of the Budgetary Process is probably his best-known contribution to the field of public administration. His research also ranged into political institutions and political behavior, the presidency and presidential elections, international and national defense policy, public policy analysis, leadership, biblical studies, community power and political culture, and much more. In each area, he contributed stimulating insights, provocative questions, and more general theory designed to encompass all of them. This tribute, written by a friend and one of the hundreds of students and colleagues he influenced and inspired, attempts to provide an understanding of Wildavsky as a bold and tenacious scholar, and as a kind and generous colleague, teacher, and human being."
10.2307_976385	1989	"Federalism is a distinctive feature and integral part of American constitutional politics and public affairs. Yet, the simple imagery of limited government, based on a separation of state and national powers, conceals complex and ambiguous connections. Because this is so, ""federalism"" is sometimes a metaphor for states' sovereignty, rather than appreciated as part of the political structure and process created by the Constitution of the United States. Remarkably, the Rehnquist Court is sharply split over whether federalism embraces a principle of states' sovereignty or a political structure and process in which national and state powers are fused. Contrary to Chief Justice Rehnquist's view that the U. S. Supreme Court should defend states' sovereignty as a restriction on the powers of the federal government, the author argues that ""federalism"" was redefined during the Founding period so as to disassociate it from the discredited idea of states' sovereignty. For better or worse, however adequately or inadequately, the interests of the ""States qua States"" are represented in the national political process and appropriately debated and defended there by elected representatives, not by the U. S. Supreme Court."
10.2307_977295	1990	This article examines the results of the first 12-year cycle of agency reviews by the Texas Sunset Advisory Commission (SAC). This examination has two goals: (1) to set SAC action within a theoretical perspective-to view sunset review as a means of providing procedural and political reliability; and (2) to examine the interplay between the dual roles of sunset review-those of management evaluation and political maneuvering. This examination demonstrates that the enduring purposes of sunset review are to encourage more effective management and to develop a broader base of political legitimacy to underpin agency operations. The simplistic notion that the purpose of sunset review is to eliminate unproductive agencies needs to be disspelled.
10.2307_975902	1987	"That administrators participate in agency policy decisions is part of the conventional wisdom reflected in public administration scholarship. Further, much of the bureaucratic politics literature portrays administrators as policy-aggrandizers-resistant to the participation of other policy actors. Yet, the accuracy of this charge is rarely empirically tested. This article examines the extent of influence which state agency heads attribute to and prescribe for themselves and seven other actors in the state policy process. It tests several hypotheses and presents empirical evidence that these administrators may want more policy participation by other actors than is commonly assumed."
10.2307_3109963	1985	Is the line-item veto used as an instrument for fiscal restraint or as an instrument for partisanship? This question is addressed through a survey of legislative budget officers in the 50 states. The data suggest the item veto is more an instrument of partisanship than of fiscal restraint.
10.2307_976905	1988	"Attempts to reorganize the executive branch in the states have occurred in four waves, with many states pursuing reorganization during a particular time period. In this article, the 22 comprehensive executive branch reorganizations that took place during the fourth wave (1965-1987) are described and analyzed. The analysis of these 22 ""successful"" reorganization initiatives shows that: (1) their intellectual roots can be traced to the works of Wilson (1887) and Brownlow (1937); (2) the principal goals or values were effectiveness, efficiency, and economy; (3) the prescribed means for achieving these goals were expanded executive power and a modernized, streamlined executive branch; (4) the results of the reorganization initiatives in all 22 states include expanded executive power and a streamlined executive branch; but (5) improvements in effectiveness, efficiency, and economy have seldom been documented. Given these findings, the author argues that proponents of the classical school should be more cautious about the bottom line results they expect from reorganization, but they need not abandon the pursuit of a modernized, streamlined executive branch or strong executive leadership."
10.2307_975905	1987	"Sexual harassment is an old problem but a new issue. Based on a survey of state personnel directors, this research note examines state governments' sexual harassment policy initiatives. Findings suggest that most states have taken affirmative steps to address the problem of sexual harassment through statewide policies, agency/departmental policies, and training programs."
10.2307_976514	1994	"How does administrative entrepreneurship operate in a changing policy environment? Using the case history of NASA's ""Mission to Planet Earth"" (MTPE), W. Henry Lambright reveals how agency leaders contended with changing opportunities and constraints to develop and sustain political support for that program. The perilous and turbulent journey of MTPE illustrates the strengths and limits of administrative entrepreneurship in contemporary American government."
10.2307_976430	1994	"Can TQM be effectively implemented under less than ideal circumstances? Steven Cohen and William Eimicke report on a focused strategy for bringing total quality management into an organization through the rapid implementation of quality improvement projects. The use of that strategy in the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation is described and assessed. According to this case, the costs of conducting quality improvement projects is much lower than the benefits they generate."
10.2307_976605	1991	"What is the relationship between public sector agencies and nonprofit service providers? In light of the increasing sharing of responsibilities between nonprofits and public agencies, Judith Saidel explores how participants in the relationship perceive the nature of their association. Using a resource dependence framework, Saidel interviewed nonprofit and state agency managers in New York State who worked together in four distinct service areas (arts, health, mental retardation and developmental disabilities, and human service). Her analysis indicates strong and symmetrical interdependence across sectors and service areas. The implications of these findings are briefly discussed as well as the need for more research on the nature of the interactions between state agencies and nonprofit service providers."
10.2307_976148	1985	"This study takes a task environment approach to organizational assessment by using data gathered from knowledgeable government officials external to the agencies being assessed. These officials were asked to rate the performance of seven federal organizational units in the summer of 1980 and again in 1981 in order to test hypotheses under two different administrations. The study seeks to address the following three questions. (1) Does field office or headquarters status affect the evaluation of an agency or its employees? (2) Does the type of service provided, physical or human, affect the evaluation of employees or agencies? (3) Do employees and the agencies they work for receive different performance ratings? Our findings suggest that the location and type of service provided by agencies as well as the focus of evaluation affect the results of organizational assessments."
10.2307_976867	1990	"At the fiftieth anniversary conference of the American Society for Public Administration in 1989, seven founding members reflected on the changing public service, their experiences in it, and challenges now confronting the United States. Dwight Waldo, former editor of the Public Administration Review, was convener of the session, and James Carr of the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency compiled this collection of remarks. Opportunities for ASPA, for public administration, and for governments throughout America are succinctly presented, based on the extensive practical and scholarly experience of these long-time leaders of ASPA."
10.2307_976467	1992	"Why are some government efforts at disaster relief more successful than others? Saundra Schneider develops an explanation that focuses on the ""gap"" between what governments are prepared to do in emergency management situations (i. e., bureaucratic norms) and what emerges as the expectations of those victimized by the disaster (i. e., emergent norms). She applies this approach to five case studies of recent disasters covering the range of examples from emergency management successes to failures. She concludes by criticizing the mass media's tendency to blame government for program failures and stressing the need for government agencies to stick with standard operating procedures and the pre-established division of labor among levels of government."
10.2307_976829	1995	"What is the role of commitment in collective action? Peter J. Robertson and Shui-Yan Tang examine how this question is addressed from two major theoretical perspectives-organizational behavior and rational choice. The two perspectives differ in the way they define the concept of commitment and in their foci and assumptions regarding the role of commitment in collective action. Despite these differences, both perspectives emphasize the importance of informal structures and mechanisms for generating and maintaining commitment. Robertson and Tang compare the two perspectives with respect to three general strategies-social processes, leadership, and structural design-for fostering commitment in organizational settings. These ideas are then used to analyze the role of commitment in school-based management. The authors conclude by discussing the relative merits of the two theoretical perspectives and by identifying several research questions derived from their comparison."
10.2307_976306	1986	"This study analyzes state legislators' perceptions of the effectiveness of administrative controls applied to public bureaucracies and designed to assure administrative accountability. The data, produced by mailed questionnaires to state House and Senate members in eight states, reveal that respondents consider legislative oversight committees as the most effective administrative control technique. This assessment might be interpreted to mean that oversight committees have more potential for encouraging administrative accountability in state government than other forms of administrative control."
10.2307_976901	1988	"This article summarizes the results of nearly 1,000 elections conducted entirely by mail in the United States in the past decade. It focuses on three of the main advantages of this uniquely American method of election administration: (1) markedly improved participation rates and increased convenience for the handicapped and others unable to get to the polls for in-person elections, (2) lower election administration costs per eligible voter or eligible voter voting, (3) increased integrity of the electoral processes. Presently operable in seven states, all-mail balloting has great promise for more truly determining the will of the majority through greater participation in free and fair elections-the bedrock of democracy. As election administrators and legislators become more familiar with the experience, it is reasonable to anticipate greater use of all mail balloting, particularly at the local level. This new way of doing one piece of the public's business is squarely in the tradition of American public administration reforms."
10.2307_976373	1996	"What do we know about violent crime in the public sector workplace and what can be done to reduce it? Although public employees were only about 18 percent of the U. S. labor force, they were the victims of about 30 percent of the cases of workplace violence during the years 1987-1992. Public concern about occupational violent crime (OVC) is typically a function of media coverage, as shown by the Oklahoma City bombing, but there is great uncertainty about the level of risk that it actually poses for public workers in general and for specific occupational groups. In this article, the authors review the current state of knowledge regarding occupational violent crime in the United States and conclude that the guidance it offers to public employers is limited. It is apparent that a national database on OVC that includes information on social-psychological, organizational, and other variables is needed if current research needs are to be met. In addition to better information, public employers should approach OVC using a strategy that includes prevention methods based on careful assessments of risks, emergency management techniques and systems, appropriate human resources policies, and management training and preparation. Although needed, government regulations may be difficult to implement in the current political environment. Public employers should assume leadership in the effort to prevent OVC and to deal with its consequences."
10.2307_3135032	1985	"In the past decade, America's prison population has more than doubled, and the nation is now embarked on a multibillion dollar prison construction program. In this context, Chief Justice Burger urges elected representatives and public administrators to rethink corrections policy and to study the costs and benefits of prison industries. A long-time advocate of prison industries, Chief Justice Burger reviews recent public-private sector ventures to reorient corrections policy."
10.2307_976730	1994	"What accounts for differences among agencies in the percentage of jobs held by women and minorities and the growth rates in their employment shares? This article explores new evidence from panel data on the extent to which interagency differences in the employment of women and minorities are systematically related to the distribution of occupations within an agency and an agency's demographic and organizational characteristics. Some findings from earlier research are confirmed by this study, but there are also several important differences between results obtained in this analysis and those obtained earlier from standard cross-sectional approaches."
10.2307_975471	1987	"The political environment of this bicentennial era is characterized by national government funding of externally-performed activities and entitlements, weak political parties now ""strengthened"" by increasing domination by particularistic groups, and expensive, influential mass media. It is an era of high-cost politics in which both the presidency and Congress have increasingly become mechanisms of political exchange through which special interests operate with little regard for the general good. Public administration has taken on some dimensions of just another such self-aggrandizing activity. The presidency has assumed imperial/sacerdotal qualities in a preoccupation with image, while civic purpose has been neglected. These developments constitute a new era of high-level spoils. Needed reforms include greater stress on shared legislative/executive authority and responsibility, in contrast with public administration's common support for aggrandizement of executive and administrative power. Most fundamentally, public administration needs rededication and linkages to general public interests. One reform is urgent: political financing and its connection to corruption and to growing incapacity of American national government to perform merely adequately, let alone consistently with values of high civic culture."
10.2307_976075	1984	"The Jerusalem Foundation is Mayor Teddy Kollek's private solution for a municipal budget that is too small. It is a successful case of private and public sector cooperation. However, there are problems as well as payoffs in such an intimate relationship between private funds and public office."
10.2307_977269	1993	"How do Hispanics fare in the U. S. public service? Antonio Sisneros surveys the evidence and concludes that although Hispanics are increasing in numbers, they are underrepresented in key administrative positions at all levels of government. He analyzes the record of NASPAA institutions in recruiting Hispanic students and faculty during the 1980s. In conclusion, Sisneros offers six proposals to expand the participation of Hispanics in the public service."
10.2307_976378	1996	"Can consensus-building techniques be effectively applied in the resources planning process? The authors describe a consensus-building process used by the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California in developing an Integrated Resources Plan for the region. The process was a modification of that used by the American Assembly. The modifications included establishing a steering committee to set the agenda and decide other details; holding a series of assemblies rather than just one; and conducting a number of open forums around the region to solicit public input. Despite having to address very controversial issues, the consensus-building process succeeded in moving Metropolitan and its Member Agencies to a much higher level of regional cooperation than had been achieved in the past. The process may be useful for a wide range of planning techniques and decision-making frameworks."
10.2307_976528	1994	"What notions of accountability are relevant to the management of nonprofit organizations? Kevin P. Kearns finds existing public sector conceptualizations ill suited to nonprofit agencies. He offers a framework stressing the strategic and tactical choices facing nonprofit organizations and discusses its policy and management implications. Kearns claims that the framework can prove useful as a strategic tool for conducting ""accountability audits"" of nonprofits as well as conceptual foundation for discussions of public or institutional policy."
10.2307_975356	1985	"Critics of applied micro-economics charge that it overemphasizes the narrowly economic, especially money and the things that it will buy. Economists respond that benefit-cost and welfare economics try to take account of anything that any individual values. This article argues that despite the formal openness of welfare economics, economists do generally over-emphasize the importance of money both as a human motive and a source of happiness. It shows occasions when this occurs in economists' evaluations of life-saving and criminal justice programs (among others) and tries to explain why economic practice so often diverges from economic theory."
10.2307_975518	1988	"Pay for time not worked is an issue that confronts most employers today. Much of the focus of the workforce is time away from the job or leisure and recreational activities. Also, collective bargaining in the public sector has resulted in paid time off for union business (negotiations, grievances, and participation in local, regional, and national union activities), compensatory time off, new holidays, incentive time off for good safety records or for not exceeding pre-established sick leave limits, and other time off benefits. This is an analysis of time that three distinctly different occupations-firefighters, police officers, and secretaries-allocate to their primary duties. The time allocations are significantly different and may be considered surprising or perhaps even alarming."
10.2307_976305	1986	"Although the strategy literature has largely focused on business firms, public agencies also engage in strategic management, as reflected in a variety of policy-making and administrative activities. This paper extends the emerging literature on strategic management in public organizations by reporting the results of field studies in four Ohio agencies and providing a preliminary classification of public organization strategies. Also, characteristics of four distinct strategies (developmental, transformational, protective, and political) are identified and described."
10.2307_975885	1987	"This paper documents the public's increasing distrust and perceived lack of confidence in American administrative leadership. The perception of confidence is linked to the concept of legitimacy. It is argued that American administrators in both government and business have indeed failed to demonstrate the characteristics on which legitimacy is based. We hold that if a ""confidence gap"" exists, it is reflected as an erosion in confidence in leadership, not in the American institutional status quo. The implications of this decline in confidence and legitimacy are discussed, and inferences are drawn about the relationship between leadership and institutional confidence in the American administrative state."
10.2307_977327	1989	"Diversity characterizes this collection of 44 articles, abstracted essays, and responses. The authors' perspectives, like their experiences and disciplines, are greatly varied and sometimes sharply contradictory. But more striking than the substantial differences is one quality which is common to nearly all of this collection. Government and self governance in their deeper and broader senses are twin concerns--urgent responsibilities--of public administration today, at least as reflected here. This shared perspective reaches well beyond the important substance and mechanics of governmental policy and its implementation, although those vital subjects of public administration are not neglected. While all of this collection grew out of Minnowbrook II, a September 1988 conference, these published articles were refereed and extensively revised for PAR, and the shorter essays and responses were abstracted from many longer papers. H. George Frederickson and Richard T. Mayer were participants in Minnowbrook II, and they served as special editors for the development of this symposium. The PAR editors and anonymous referees who worked on this collection were not Minnowbrook conferees. Added pages for publication of the shorter essays and responses in this issue of PAR were financed by the Edwin O. Stene Professorship, University of Kansas."
10.2307_976077	1984	"Canada's envelope budget system is designed to manage both the process and outcome of the Canadian federal budget process. Programs are divided into envelopes and managed by cabinet committees who are given advance targets for their envelopes in the annual budget process based on the performance of the economy. The system functions within a five-year budget plan, emphasizes the provision of policy analysis, cabinet committee government, and substitution of new programs for old programs in the budget base. The envelope system seems to have improved the process of budgeting. While national budget systems do not translate perfectly, American jurisdictions may want to consider certain aspects of the envelope system."
10.2307_975658	1984	"Doing what is practical and rational depends upon the context one is in. Theories of administrative rationality can be usefully and systematically organized once their assumptions about the practical context of action and decision making are recognized. James March's and Herbert Simon's notion of ""bounded rationality"" contributed an important measure of realism, while raising significant further questions. This essay further develops the analysis of the boundedness of rational administrative action first to distinguish distinct types of constraints and bounds and second to identify the correspondingly distinct practical strategies of administrative action that may be taken in response to such decision-making conditions."
10.2307_977009	1989	"A common perception is that states with equal rights amendments (ERA) in their constitutions are more progressive in implementation of statutes protecting women's rights than non-ERA states. This study tests that proposition by focusing on the implementational difficulties associated with domestic violence statutes experienced by a Houston nonprofit agency aimed at curbing domestic violence and by similar organizations in other states with ERAs. The results show that judges, local law enforcement officers, and district attorneys (in that order) are the major impediments. The most successful implementation strategies are lobbying, public education, and technical assistance to police. The study also shows that, of the states with the most progressive domestic violence statutes, only two have equal rights amendments in their constitutions."
10.2307_976976	1990	The practice of local government professionals continuously adapts to changing political environments. Successful managers today are deeply involved in public policy making as they negotiate and broker diverse community interests. Yet an outdated orthodoxy still would have one believe that a dichotomy exists between politics and administration. This article proposes three tenets of contemporary professionalism in local government. The tenets are derived from contemporary management practice and seek to place that practice within the framework of representative democracy.
10.2307_977293	1990	"While most state and local governments have adapted to the changes fashioned by the tax limitation movement, they now must confront a less visible yet no less costly movement to limit their traditional source of debt, the tax-exempt municipal bond. With passage of the Tax Reform Act of 1986, Congress placed significant limitations on the use of tax-exempt bonds for private purposes. In 1988, the tax-exempt limitation movement found judicial sanction when the U. S. Supreme Court ruled in South Carolina v. Baker that state and local bonds are not constitutionally protected from federal taxation. As with the tax limitation movement of a decade earlier, issuers of tax-exempt debt must search for alternative sources of capital, including issuing taxable bonds. After tracing the rise of taxable municipal bonds, this article examines the investment market's response to this new source of capital. It finds that if the private-purpose bonds now exempt had been subject to federal taxation, state and local budgets would have incurred 441 million in additional interest payments in 1988 and almost 6 billion in additional payments over the average life of the bonds. The analysis also finds that taxable revenue bonds incur higher interest rates than corporate bonds, indicating some discrimination by investors against this new type of security."
10.2307_3110241	1995	"Can city or county managers take an active role in policy making and still have grounds to keep council politics out of the administrative hierarchy? Montjoy and Watson agree that the old dichotomy of policy and administration is untenable as a guide to behavior. Yet, they argue, that conclusion does not require the city/county management profession to forego a dichotomy of politics and administration as a professional standard. In order to make this point, they return to the writings of Woodrow Wilson and Frank Goodnow to show that the two dichotomies can be interpreted as distinct concepts, both of which fit into a coherent theory of democratic accountability and both of which are relevant to council-manager government today. They interpret the policy-administration dichotomy as an analytical construct used to justify legislative supremacy, which council-manager government has. They interpret the politics-administration dichotomy as an institutional ban on particularism, one which managers can still use to draw a clear line against certain forms of council involvement in the administrative hierarchy. They conclude that a reinterpreted politics-administration dichotomy should be supported as a professional standard in council-manager government."
10.2307_976878	1990	"It is appropriate at the fiftieth anniversary of the Public Administration Review to look back at the proud moments and the accomplishments of the journal's first half century. It is equally important to consider the forces and challenges that have shaped its development as well as those which seem likely to affect it in the years to come. This examination of the Review focuses on the first decade of publication, PAR at its silver anniversary, and the Review as it approaches its half century point. In the process, it includes excerpts from leading articles that are significant in their right but also typify important aspects of the journal's life and character. What emerges is a picture of a journal which has served its field well, by maintaining, against difficult odds, the interaction of academic and practitioner perspectives on public administration. It faces new challenges and a continuing need to address classic problems; but then so does public administration as a field."
10.2307_976708	1993	"Does an individual's position in a public organization affect his or her views of what personnel units are or should be doing? Charles Sampson provides some answers through his survey of public sector chief executive officers, line managers, and personnel directors in Illinois and Missouri. While the literature on personnel management suggests a greater role for personnel departments in planning and setting policies regarding human resources, the perceptions of CEOs and line managers emphasized more limited service roles. Personnel directors also saw themselves primarily as service providers. However, they regarded themselves as a bit more involved in other personnel tasks-especially in advisory roles-than did the executives or managers. The survey's results suggest that advocates of an enhanced role for professional human resource managers in public organizations have many obstacles to overcome."
10.2307_975993	1984	"Competing theories imply different strategies for interjecting regional and state concerns into local land use regulation. This article presents four theories of regulation and assesses them against evidence from Florida's experience with growth management. Florida's growth management system is modeled after an administrative theory of regulation which calls for a hierarchy of regulatory agencies tied at the top to elected officials. Florida's experience suggests, however, that juridical rather than organizational variables are most important for regulatory reform. Where its legislative mandate is clear and focused, Florida's growth management system has been relatively effective, but where the mandate is vague the system has performed poorly even though it is tied directly to the governor and Cabinet. The practical implication of this conclusion is that regulatory reformers should be concerned less with the organization of regulation than with its objectives and rule-making procedures."
10.2307_976431	1994	"Can public officials correctly be said to have obligations to future generations? Issues of intergenerational fairness are all around us. Beginning with the Athenian oath, H. George Frederickson reviews moral, philosophical, and empirical arguments about the obligations of public officials toward future generations. A review of philosophers, both ancient and contemporary, finds general agreement that temporal generations have moral responsibilities toward both their children (near-term future generations) and posterity (future generations through time). Using the compound theory of social equity, the author finds many examples of intergenerational equity in making and implementing of public policy. Finally, he calls for a moral community in public administration that practices both temporal and intergenerational social equity."
10.2307_976728	1994	"Why should emergency management agencies be based in county offices? William L. Waugh, Jr., discovers a number of reasons including that they generally (1) are geographically close to environmental problems, (2) have larger resource bases than municipalities, (3) have ambiguous administrative structures that encourage inter- and intragovernmental cooperation, (4) are local agents of state administration, (5) have close administrative ties to state agencies, (6) provide forums for local-local cooperation, and (7) serve as general-purpose local governments representing local interests and having strong local identification."
10.2307_3110057	1996	"What most characterizes German public administration since the 18th century is its early modernization relative to the political regime. The ""rule of law"" became the central mechanism of modernization when the ""rule of man"" -the nonconstitutional monarchy-was still intact. The ""science"" of administration was, until recently, dominated by jurisprudence, as were the institutions of public administration. A social science-oriented concept of administrative science only emerged with the reformist drive for accelerated modernization of public infrastructure and public planning in the 1960s. The article outlines the phases of development of this new administrative science from the 1960s to the 1990s and argues that today, as in the past, reform remains the central focus of German public administration, especially with its current emphasis upon the problems of German reunification."
10.2307_975583	1986	"The systematic education of public managers has undergone various changes throughout its history. Today, if we are to continue to educate qualified public managers, we must update our programs to reflect the continuing changes in society, government, and knowledge-particularly those changes precipitated by the computer age. At minimum, we must provide managers with three levels of computer literacy: (1) the ability to use the technology in their own work, (2) the ability to use the technology of the organizations they manage, (3) the ability to develop policy for effective use and control of the technology for strategic as well as for operational advantages. This report outlines the rationale for computer literacy, the nature of an academic program and courses to deliver it, and its relation to other knowledge and skill requirements of modern public administration."
10.2307_977142	1993	"Is congressional micromanagement an unwarranted and inappropriate intrusion into the operations of the federal bureaucracy? Focusing on congressional oversight of the Defense Department, Kenneth R. Mayer shows that budgetary and administrative micromanagement are legislative tools for achieving policy preferences within DoD. He argues that calls for reform of micromanagement must take the policy making prerogatives of Congress into account."
10.2307_976429	1994	"How are administrators of categorically based programs adjusting to reduced federal funding? A limited federal budget is pressuring the advocates of programs which have historically used categorical eligibility to consider shifting to means-tested programs. Barbara J. Holt traces the evolution of a major federal program, the Older Americans Act, over a 30-year period-from a purely categorically based program to one in which targeting is a major requirement. The first step in this process is the attempt to target those most in need without eliminating services to all others in the category. A survey of state units on aging reveals the extent of compliance and several methods of diluting the targeting effect. The history of this program provides insight into the potential legislative, judicial, and administrative issues for other programs."
10.2307_976547	1992	"Is the state of public administration research as gloomy as portrayed by its critics? Richard Box reviews the PAR series that began with McCurdy and Cleary's 1984 piece on public administration research and offers a critique of the pessimistic assessment they provide. He challenges the assumptions made about the kind of research done in the ""mainstream"" social sciences which the series' authors seek to emulate, as well as the lack of reference to research in more practitioner oriented fields such as law, planning, etc. Box challenges the narrow view of ""scientific writing style"" assumed by these critics, as well as their contention that public administration research is not really addressing the core issues of the field."
10.2307_976606	1991	"How well is the Senior Executive Service reform effort working? Is it achieving the improvements in program and agency performance that it was intended to have? Is the goal of greater public confidence being achieved? Systematic attempts to answer these questions require the development of an evaluative model of the policy logic underlying the SES provisions of the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978. Building on the work of Buchanan (1981), Professors Perry and Miller offer a revised model based on survey data collected by the Merit Systems Protection Board. The results indicate support for many of the intended consequences of the SES reforms, as well as some other impacts that were not originally hypothesized. Other fruitful findings emerging from the study include insights about the relationship between political appointees and careerists, factors shaping public confidence, and the role public confidence plays in shaping individual competence, performance, and motivation."
10.2307_977199	1996	"In ""Public Policy and Administration...,"" the late Norton E. Long, espousing that bureaucracies in government engage in both policy making and administration, stresses that administrative organizations should reflect the needs of society. In so doing, these groupings must ask questions, provide facts, and also formulate policy proposals. As a result, ""...it is possible to build administrative structures whose accounts of the facts will provide a salutary limitation to the range of policy proposals that politicians will find it politic to espouse."" Long's retrospective follows this condensed reprint of his earlier manuscript, with reactions by an academician and a practitioner."
10.2307_976530	1994	"What are the challenges facing the implementation of alternative dispute resolution (ADR) reforms? To find the answer, Nancy J. Manring examined the experience of the U. S. Forest Service since passage of the 1990 Alternative Dispute Resolution and Negotiated Rulemaking Acts. She finds that the use of ADR involves unresolved issues associated with agency autonomy and administrative responsiveness. Manring discusses how Forest Service managers try to reconcile these competing demands. She concludes that coming to terms with the resulting tensions involves organizational changes to support and facilitate the regularized use of ADR."
10.2307_976389	1989	"Government managers and staff are using computers extensively. Moreover, they feel that computers and computer-based information are key to their own productivity and that of their organizations. However, managers and their staffs are not well trained to use computers, and they may not be getting as much out of computers as they could. Consequently and as directed by the new National Association of Schools of Public Affairs and Administration (NASPAA) guidelines, more attention needs to be given to computer literacy and applications in public-management educational programs. This study, based on a 1988 study of computing in 46 cities in the United States, fills in some details of what types of knowledge and skills should be offered."
10.2307_977331	1989	"Does public management matter? Under what, if any, conditions does how public organizations are led, structured, and coordinated affect the quality of citizens' lives? This exploratory essay recommends an approach to public management studies that is directed at answering these questions and ""recovering"" the public management variable. Using examples from the recent literature on schools, prisons, and armies and drawing on various theoretical literatures, it is argued that the future of public management studies should lie in efforts to specify what ends given public organizations ought to achieve and how best to achieve them."
10.2307_976491	1994	"What issues are of greatest concern to counties as their service delivery and policy-making roles expand in the federal system? Beverly A. Cigler builds a database to examine the lobbying activities of state associations of counties by tabulating their official, written agendas. She supplements that objective data with telephone interviews of executive directors of the statewide county organizations across the United States. The author finds a large and diverse set of issues of interest to counties that spans four broad types of agendas: structural change, intergovernmental arrangements, substantive policy issues, and internal operations. The county-agendas classification serves as a research-needs assessment for policy-relevant research on counties and county-state relations. County roles, responsibilities, and performance are an important part of the rethinking and restructuring of government in the 1990s, and this research helps shape the discussion."
10.2307_975474	1987	"The judiciary has responded to the emergence of the contemporary administrative state by making itself a ""partner"" in public administration. The new partnership exists within a legal framework based on (1) greater constitutional protections for individuals as they come into contact with public administration, (2) the public law litigation suit, which is a vehicle for judicial involvement in the reform of public institutions, and (3) an expansion of public administrators' legal liability. The new partnership challenges the traditional administrative culture's values as well as its cognitive and evaluative orientations. Five possible futures for the new partnership are considered."
10.2307_976153	1985	"A revolution-albeit a quiet one-has transformed the states over the past quarter century. Yet these changes seem not to have been widely recognized or well understood until recently. Now that the spotlight has been turned on the states as a result of the ""new federalism"" and federal budget deficits, whether and in what ways they will demonstrate a commitment to use their strengthened institutional capacity and improved fiscal position will be debated for some time to come. Nevertheless, the states' recent record as budget balancers, cutback managers, policy initiators, and program implementors has been impressive-far more so than that of the federal government."
10.2307_977166	1992	"Is federalism alive in the Supreme Court? Through an analysis of a variety of cases decided since the 1985 Garcia case, Charles Wise and Rosemary O'Leary conclude that the death notices which followed that case were premature. Giving special attention to cases involving government liability, program management, financial administration, and personnel policies, the authors find that Court decisions have not clearly favored either the national or state governments. Moreover, in some recent decisions they see a resurgence of federalism and the concept of state sovereignty it implies."
10.2307_3110054	1996	"Do municipal bonds sold through competition have lower interest rates for issuers than negotiated sales? Research done in the 1970s and 1980s suggests that, all else equal, interest costs are generally lower for competitively bid municipal bonds compared to negotiated bond sales. William Simonsen and Mark D. Robbins explore this question in light of changes in the municipal bond market that suggest a need to revisit this question. Their findings indicate that on average, and all else equal, competitive sales result in lower interest cost to issuers compared to negotiated sales, and that this difference increases with the number of bids received. This research has added salience given several recent scandals and alleged improprieties in the municipal bond market."
10.2307_976927	1992	"What factors explain enrollment patterns at public affairs/administration schools over the past 15 years? Data supplied by the National Association of Schools of Public Affairs and Administration (NASPAA) indicate that enrollments went through periods of rapid growth (1972-79), sharp decline (1979-83), and relative stability (1983-89). Using adjusted enrollment data, James Conant examines several often-mentioned factors (type of university, public or private; geographic region; type of program; enrollment size) and finds mixed results, with different patterns emerging for different schools depending on the period and variable under consideration. The research does point to special problems for programs located in private universities, as well as more general concerns for the future that should be addressed by all public affairs and administration programs."
10.2307_975570	1986	"The widespread and expanding use of computing by government and business is a phenomenon of the last three decades. This rapid increase in use of computing raises questions about the kind of social world emerging from the expanding permeation of organizational life by computing. Research on computing in organizations provides an interesting window on the effects of computing on organizations and society. Findings are reviewed with respect to organizational structure, employment, work life, decision making, organizational politics, and the management of computing. These findings strain conventional theories about the evolution of computing and suggest new theoretical approaches to the study of computing in organizations."
10.2307_976866	1990	"The Gramm-Rudman-Hollings legislation attempted to restrict the growth of deficits and the national debt by setting mandatory deficit targets and establishing a procedure for automatically reducing the annual deficit if the target is not met. This article reviews the expectations surrounding the enactment of the legislation and its performance to date. That performance demonstrates that the Gramm-Rudman-Hollings legislation has failed to control the budget deficit. However, the yearly ritual of preparing budgets that conform to the legislated requirements of this Act creates the illusion of deficit control and removes the incentive for developing real deficit controls. Several aspects of the legislation that contribute to its failure are identified."
10.2307_977363	1993	"How have we progressed in our 100-year-old debate about the politics/administration dichotomy? Marcia Whicker, Ruth Strickland, and Dorothy Olshfski argue that public management is examined within political science as a conversion variable. While political science has not reached consensus about a single, discipline-dependent variable, knowledge of the concepts as used-power, justice, equity, conflict, and policy-is useful for public managers. At this point in time, political science offers the practitioner a more thorough training in scientific rigor than public administration. Public administration is an interdisciplinary hybrid, that can draw as much or more from political science as from other contributing disciplines. A focus upon the interface between the two disciplines rather than continued emphasis on their differences provides the greatest prospect for future mutual advance."
10.2307_977128	1995	"Why should workplace managers bother being concerned about the civil rights of people afflicted with HIV/AIDS? Because it is the law under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA). In this article, James D. Slack examines the dynamics involved with applying the protections of the ADA to the most vulnerable group of disabled Americans-those who are in the HIV spectrum. In order to implement effectively the ADA in the age of AIDS, managers must be knowledgeable about the nuances of both the law and the disease. Slack concludes that managers must develop a workplace environment that supports and encourages the utilization of ADA-based rights by people with HIV/AIDS and suggests three specific activities which can help establish and maintain that environment."
10.2307_976634	1991	"Is the knowledge base of public administration too unscientific? In response to critics who argue it is, Ralph Hummel offers a defense of the way public sector managers acquire and use knowledge. In contrast to those who contend that public administration needs to generate and use knowledge based on ""objectivity"" and ""pure reason,"" Hummel contends that the way managers interpret their world-""story-telling""-is a valid means for producing and accumulating knowledge. He argues that this source of knowledge is as credible for scholars and students of public administration as it is for practitioners."
10.2307_976577	1989	"The authors analyze the results of a survey questionnaire completed by 161 whistleblowers, 80 percent of whom were or are government employees. They examine the consequences of whistleblowing and explore the organizational position and personal attributes of whistleblowers. The authors report severe retaliation against this group of whistleblowers and find that they are in many ways exceptional and tend to exhibit a distinctive approach to moral issues and decision making."
10.2307_976973	1990	"Marshall Dimock is one of public administration's most prolific authors. Throughout his productive career that spans over 60 years, he has crafted a profound as well as useful philosophy of administration. His perspective is grounded in Greek philosophy. It makes individual creativity and ethical relationships central to organizational vitality. Dimock has sought to correct modernism's misguided trust in impersonal organization and technology."
10.2307_977253	1996	"What are the variety and scope of administrative challenges faced by large bureaucratic structures when they implement system-wide change? Specifically, when decision making about priorities for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) prevention programs was decentralized by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and delegated to state and local departments of health, what were the implications for public health infrastructure, work force training, resource distribution, and policy development? Using a previously developed model of effective change management, Ronald O. Valdiserri describes, from a federal agency perspective, the variety of actions that were necessary to implement and sustain system-wide changes in the planning and priority setting of CDC's publicly funded HIV prevention programs."
10.2307_977330	1989	"The New Public Administration sought a public service whose legitimacy would be based, in part, on its promotion of ""social equity."" Since 1968, several personnel changes congruent with the New Public Administration have occurred: traditional managerial authority over public employees has been reduced through collective bargaining and changes in constitutional doctrines; the public service has become more socially representative; establishing a representative bureaucracy has become an important policy goal; more emphasis is now placed on employee participation in the work place; and legal changes regarding public administrators' liability have promoted an ""inner check"" on their behavior. At the same time, however, broad systemic changes involving decentralization and the relationship between political officials and career civil servants have tended to undercut the impact of those changes in personnel. The theories of Minnowbrook I have, therefore, proven insufficient as a foundation for a new public service. Grounding the public service's legitimacy in the U. S. Constitution is a more promising alternative and is strongly recommended."
10.2307_976948	1991	"What has been the impact of the state and local tax and expenditures limitations (TELs) movement of the 1970s and 1980s? Focusing on the consequences of different types of TELs for revenue and expenditure structure, Philip Joyce and Daniel Mullins offer some interesting findings. They found that the level and share of state and local taxes were influenced in some unexpected ways. TELs imposed on state governments had little or no impact on increasing reliance on general tax revenues sources. Where both state and local governments faced limitations, the consequences were greater for local tax structures than for the state. States characterized by local TELs did show short-term overall declines in both state and local tax levels; in the long term, however, state taxes increased in those states. In the area of state aid to localities, Joyce and Mullins found a link between TELs and increased aid, although the evidence indicates that some increases may be attributed to other forces and trends. Finally, Joyce and Mullins found that with the exception of public welfare expenditures, state-level TELs had little impact on the relative amount each government level spent in various functional categories. Where limitations were imposed on both state and local governments, the state was found to be more reluctant to assume increasing burdens. Joyce and Mullins raise a variety of questions addressing the relationship between TELs and other forces that influence the structure of state and local revenues and expenditures. They also raise issues regarding the ""offsetting"" effects of different types of TELs, the distribution of state aid, and the impacts of TELs on the structure of local governance."
10.2307_977206	1996	"Are defense studies relevant to the study of public administration? Students of public administration, regulatory processes, public bureaucracy, and policy studies rarely focus on defense as their substantive area, leaving the field to those trained in defense studies and international relations. The result is negligible attention to the domestic political aspects of defense policy and minimal understanding of the administrative aspects of defense policy. The authors' goals are to (1) establish why this gap exists, (2) draw parallels with similar arguments that are giving way under scrutiny in other fields of study, and (3) identify the gains to be made by bridging the gap. Specifically, they suggest work from the new economics of organization, as applied to other policy areas, as a means to highlight the political and administrative challenges of defense procurement. Traditionally, procurement processes have received heavy, yet simplistic, criticisms from scholars of defense policy who argue for deregulation of the process to emphasize outcomes rather than processes, and efficiency rather than procedural accountability. Mayer and Khademian argue that a more realistic examination of procurement in a political context of multiple and competitive principals illustrates the difficulty of demanding accountability (especially for outcomes) when goals are diverse and heavily debated, measured with difficulty, and the purchases are ""lumpy"" and time intensive."
10.2307_976991	1988	"In the early 1970s, the federal government actively promoted affirmative action and equal opportunity. By the middle of the decade, these concepts were influencing personnel practices to some degree in most governmental agencies. Large numbers of women entered public service during this period. However, women continued to be underrepresented in managerial categories, especially top management, and they were disproportionately employed in lower salary ranges. This case study examines seven local, state, and federal agencies in Oregon that have track records of success in moving women into management positions. Top managers, personnel officers, and promoted women managers were interviewed to identify the strategies which were instrumental in the advancement of women. This information is used to define specific action steps for agencies concerned about affirmative action."
10.2307_3110344	1995	What are the strategic implications for improving public services of alternative models of citizenship? Hindy Lauer Schachter contrasts the citizen-owner model used by the Bureau of Municipal Research with the citizen-as-consumer model posited by Osborne and Gaebler in Reinventing Government. She shows that the Bureau's concept of efficient citizenship leads to a more expansive and generous public role in reform. The reinventing government scenario assumes improvement comes from change in bureaucratic structures and cultures. The citizen-as-owner model posits that reform also requires reinventing ourselves as active citizens through education and information exchange.
10.2307_977078	1990	"After a review of historical fiscal relationships between the federal government and state and local governments, the effect of the Tax Reform Act of 1986 is examined in terms of the capacity of states and localities to finance infrastructure needs. Limitations placed on the issuance of tax exempt bonds by state and local governments have placed these governments in a subservient position in the American federal system contrary to their traditional partnership role."
10.2307_976770	1995	"Geographic information systems (GIS) and related technologies have been implemented for many purposes in local governments. Based on experience with other innovations, implementation will continue at a rapid rate. For technical and organizational reasons, initial implementation is typically limited to query and display applications. Few applications as yet at the local level support complex analyses or ad hoc decision making. Evolution into applications involving spatial analysis, modeling, and prediction is constrained not so much by technical limitations as by organizational and institutional impediments. Technical issues include system components, system design, and technical expertise. Organizational issues include how well the staff of an organization understands the technology and its role, and how the organization adapts to new sources and types of information. Institutional issues are factors external to an agency that influence an organization's ability to adopt or use GIS, particularly political and economic. To overcome impediments to successful use, GISs will need to be customized for organizations, and organizations will have to adapt to new ways of generating and using information."
10.2307_977364	1993	"What are the implications of our changing environmental laws for U. S. public administration? In this article, Rosemary O'Leary examines five trends in government liability under environmental laws: (1) the erosion of government immunity; (2) criminal liability of lower and middle level government employees; (3) increased reporting requirements; (4) the municipality as water pollution control agency; and (5) liability for regulatory takings. O'Leary concludes that these developments will prompt nothing less than a fundamental change in public administration as we know it today. Proactive steps, such as using the budgetary process as a defensive mechanism, are suggested as a means of addressing the challenges that environmental laws pose to public managers."
10.2307_976808	1992	"What has been the experience of states and localities with ""disparity studies""? Such studies were undertaken by a number of jursidictions in response to the 1989 U. S. Supreme Court decision in City of Richmond v. Croson. Seeking evidence of current and past discrimination to help justify minority business set-aside programs, a number of jurisdictions have hired outside experts to analyze local and regional disparities in the awarding of government contracts. Mitchell F. Rice describes the typical contents of these studies and gives examples from several major localities (Atlanta, Milwaukee, Tallahassee, and Hillsborough County, Florida). Rice provides a more detailed methodological critique of a Louisiana disparity study that found no evidence of discrimination in the awarding of public works contracts. He concludes that disparity studies, if properly done, can result in effective set-aside programs."
10.2307_3110396	1992	"What impact has the ""culture of modernity"" had on the field of public administration? Guy B. Adams contends that the American cultural preoccupation with modernity has shaped the study of public administration into an ahistorical and atemporal field that stresses technical rationality and has limited capacity to address critical questions facing society. This approach to public administration puts its emphasis on professionalism and the ""scientific"" and ""rigorous"" study of the field. Adams calls for greater attention to history that produces a ""genuinely open inquiry"" in the field."
10.2307_976824	1995	"What role does a government corporation's bottom line play in bringing about constructive changes in management, and what can those changes tell us about the effort to reinvent government? Anne Khademian examines management changes in the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) made at the height of the recent banking crisis and argues that the agency's clear bottom line, the Bank Insurance Fund (BIF), played a crucial role in motivating and facilitating key shifts in organizational resources, authority, and structure. The FDIC experience informs the debate over reinventing government in several ways. First, it illustrates the importance of a political consensus in support of a particular bottom line as an indicator of an agency's effectiveness. Second, changes made by the FDIC challenge the arguments for (and the trend toward) government efforts to do more ""steering"" and less ""rowing."" Finally, the case suggests the need to look carefully at management efforts in government corporations, more generally, to understand the dynamics of bottom-line organizations subject to the pressures and oversight of the political arena."
10.2307_3110434	1986	"The Reagan administration's efforts to reshape the American administrative state promises to leave several legacies for succeeding presidencies. The most important of these has been to reopen and stimulate public debate over the three main dimensions of the administrative state: (1) the role and reach of government in America's mixed economy; (2) the organizational and administrative apparatus that is used to carry out government's role; and (3) the role of government employees-career civil servants and political appointees-in the policy process. The outcome of this dialog is likely to produce a more diverse and dynamic array of government action than in the past, although public attitudes and the large national debt are likely to continue to dictate a more constrained role for the federal government in domestic affairs. In the future, both theoreticians and practitioners will be challenged to design ways to organize and administer these new forms of government responsibility and action and to define the proper roles for public employees in these arrangements."
10.2307_975443	1986	"The recent surge of interest in privatization reflects citizen and politician desires for reducing costs and improving quality of public services. This study assessed the costs and benefits of privatization in the context of urban bus transit. Five ownership-management structures were compared on a series of performance indicators. The results indicate that privately owned and operated systems produced more output per dollar and generated greater revenues than other types of systems. Publicly owned systems managed by contractors, however, performed no more efficiently and effectively than publicly owned, publicly managed systems. Despite these findings, large-scale shifts toward private ownership or away from contract management may be unlikely because of other factors influencing choices about ownership and management in the urban transit industry."
10.2307_3110056	1996	"The French strong state tradition decisively shapes both its past and present development of public administration. France created some of the earliest continental administrative institutions and first studies of public administration. The development of the French liberal state in the 19th century led to the predominance of law and lawyers emphasizing the guarantee of citizens' rights and limits on state power. The shift to law eclipsed social science-based public administration. Since the 1960s, for various reasons, France has witnessed the reemergence of a broader administrative science, with law-based models competing with managerial and sociological-based models. Today several analytical approaches exist, reflecting a complex and rich pluralism, although legal dogma remains strong and poses dilemmas for the independence of French administrative sciences."
10.2307_977384	1994	"How can good listening help public administrators be more responsive to the public? In public administration, responsibility is lauded as the essence of bureaucratic professionalism while responsiveness tends to connote inappropriate political bias. Yet too much reliance on administrators' sense of responsibility threatens democratic accountability and puts too much faith in bureaucratic expertise. This article argues that practicing responsiveness by developing the ability to listen skillfully reduces the tension between administrative effectiveness and democratic accountability. The experience of listening involves openness, respect for difference, and reflexivity. Developing the capacity to listen well promotes accountability by helping administrators to hear neglected voices and engage in reciprocal communication with the public; it promotes effectiveness by deepening our understanding of complex situations and facilitating imaginative approaches."
10.2307_3109971	1985	Application of strategic planning and management techniques over a 13-month period by the Ohio Bureau of Employment Services is reported on in this article. The bureau's effort rested on two principal foundation stones: (1) the development of a highly selective agenda of strategic issues related to both program content and the management process and (2) the development of a cohesive senior management team which engaged in intensive collective management of the agenda. This strategic agenda management approach resulted in significant programmatic change and improvements in bureau management in the near-term without the elaborate trappings of formal long-range planning.
10.2307_976702	1993	"Should planners and policy analysts rely primarily on market theory in addressing public issues? Ernest Sternberg argues that Karl Polanyi's work offers a formidable alternative. Writing in the 1940s and 1950s, Polanyi rejected the notion that the market was the sole institutional mechanism for satisfying economic wants. He posited a much broader perspective on public policy, taking social, environmental, and other factors into account. Sternberg offers an overview of Polanyi's thought and its potential for justifying and guiding public sector planning and policy making."
10.2307_976064	1987	"Since the inception of the council-manager form of municipal government nearly 80 years ago, personal and professional relations between the city manager and the city attorney have often been marked by suspicions and competition. This article provides a brief account of the evolution of the relations of these two professional groups and more specifically reviews data from nearly 500 managers and attorneys on functional responsibilities and interaction patterns. The lack of consensus on whether the attorney is a member of the management team or fills a unique ""watchdog"" responsibility for the council and/or the public has led to numerous sensitive issues, including administrative control, greater responsibility of the attorney, city attorney client, and attorney involvement in policy development. Resolution of these concerns is expected to have significant consequences for municipal government effectiveness."
10.2307_977386	1994	"Will progressivism endure as the conceptual foundation for public administration? Traditional progressivism, with its characteristic hierarchical control, scientific management and neutral competence, allows public administrators little room to use discretion or to process political claims. Though the progressivist model continues to have legitimacy, policy network models more accurately account for use of discretion. First, a network model premised on economic utility explains events better than does traditional progressivism. Secondly, a social-constructivist model (in which network participants influence one another and make sense together) has normative advantages over both progressivism and the economic exchange model. The catch is that the progressivist injunction against the use of discretion must be abandoned. When that happens, the political side, the ""demand side,"" of public administration is no longer invisible. Policy networks provide a way of processing dissension, articulating values, and airing possible policy implementation strategies. Maneuvering on behalf of the public interest in this complex politically subtle network is the task of post-progressive public administrative."
10.2307_977334	1989	"The neglect of moral discourse in mainstream organization theory during the past four decades may be attributed to the dominance of the ""decision,"" popularized by Herbert Simon, as the field's primary unit of analysis. Underwritten by an epistemology derived from the logical positivists' analytical distinction between value and fact, the idea of decision has come to be uncritically accepted as a morally neutral and empirically self-evident beginning point for organizational analysis. The ethnomethodological writings of Harold Garfinkel, coupled with insights from contemporary philosophy of language, radically challenge the value-fact distinction, pointing to an epistemology of everyday life in which value and fact are initially fused. The inherent fusion of value and fact provides the basis for an alternative epistemology for organization theory--termed the ""action"" or ""process"" perspective--which fundamentally alters the empirical understanding of organizational life and, consistent with the writings of Mary Parker Follett, enables the recovery of organization theory's moral center."
10.2307_3110444	1986	"Many organizations, especially public agencies, are in need of revitalization. Often the arrival of a new leader is an opportune moment to reinvigorate the agency, yet the yield from this opportunity critically depends on the way in which the leader joins with the existing staff. The following article examines some of the dynamics of a new leader's arrival and explores the power of a strategic theme to link the leader and the inherited staff productively. We examine the early phases of the emergence of a strategic theme and look at the critical transition when the theme begins to shape behavior. We conclude with advice on the use of themes as vehicles for revitalization."
10.2307_976926	1992	"In an era of greater liability for government administrators, is it still possible for agency actions to be immune from legal action? According to this case study of nuclear arms production by Howard Ball, the answer is yes. The post-World War Two work of the Atomic Energy Commission in producing and testing nuclear weapons was given a ""discretionary function"" exception under the Federal Tort Claims Act. A major test of that exception came in 1981, when families of deceased uranium miners filed suit against mining companies and the United States government claiming the miners should have been warned about radiation hazards. While the case against the mining companies was settled out of court, the case against the federal government was dismissed under provisions of the Federal Tort Claims Act exception for the exercise of agency discretion. In such cases the only recourse remains congressional relief."
10.2307_3110390	1992	"Can a reconfiguration of federal-state relationships help resolve major issues facing American government? Alice M. Rivlin believes it can, and she calls for a ""new vision"" of federalism that provides a clearer distinction among the responsibilities of national and state governments. Originally presented as an address to the National Academy of Public Administration, this article emphasizes three major dimensions of the new vision: a federal government emphasis on social insurance responsibilities; the states' assumption of education, infrastructure, and other ""productivity agenda"" items; and a new system of ""common shared taxes."""
10.2307_977178	1995	"To what extent does traditional Japanese culture influence the behavior and actions of public administrators? How are decisions made in the bureaucracy? Why are Japanese administrators so committed to their everyday work? Jong Jun and Hiromi Muto try to answer these and other questions through an understanding of idiosyncratic aspects of administrative culture. Since the basic purpose of their study is to explore the qualitative and tacit elements of administration, they do not attempt to test the research questions analytically and empirically. They argue that while the sociocultural elements promote the processes of participative decision making, group orientation, loyalty, and harmony, Japanese administrative culture can be a hindrance to individual creativity and critical thinking, interagency coordination, citizen participation, and innovative policy development."
10.2307_976603	1991	"What determines the success of different local recycling programs? Following up on earlier research that focused on the design and management of solid-waste recycling efforts (see Folz's article in the May/June issue of PAR), David Folz and Joseph Hazlett attempt to discover how important local population, socioeconomic, and political characteristics are in determining the relative success of different programs. They find that such success depends more on the policies chosen, how they are selected, and how they are implemented rather than on local community characteristics. In short, although local conditions may determine which programs are selected, the ultimate performance of local recycling programs remains in the hands of their designers and managers."
10.2307_975308	1987	"This Brownlow Committee's place in history is misperceived by those who think that the Committee prescribed a comprehensive reorganization detailing reassignment of bureaus among the departments, that its accomplishments were limited to the Executive Office of the President, and that it fostered development of ""the imperial presidency."" It scanted the first. It established an ambitious agenda of reform much of which has been realized. It proposed a modest number of presidential assistants and defined their roles in terms that resonate 50 years later, the more so because their flouting has led to a hyperactive, inflated presidential entourage and has cost the Republic dearly."
10.2307_975598	1988	"This commentary argues that ""bureaucrat bashing"" is caused by two related phenomena: dissensus among the major party elites about the role (and distrust within each part of the mission) of government. Since public servants now lack protectors, and there is no widely acceptable role available to them, hard times are likely to continue."
10.2307_976452	1996	"Two dimensions of administrative change in contemporary democracies are at war with one another. On the one hand, the ""new public management"" argues that organizations should decentralize and empower lower echelon employees. Further, government is urged to decentralize structurally and to create autonomous and semiautonomous organizations to deliver public services. On the other hand, continuing fiscal pressures and the requirements of the global economy point to the need to coordinate better not only policies but also programs which increasingly cut across departmental or agency lines. The United States presents an extreme case of the need to coordinate multiple and often incoherent programs. That need has to a great extent been exacerbated by reforms stemming from the National Performance Review (NPR). The research reported in this article examines the impact of the NPR on the behavior of central agencies in Washington-the Office of Management and Budget, the Office of Personnel Management, and the General Services Administration. We argue that despite the changes over the past year, the fundamental nature of central agencies has not been transformed, and they are still very much in the business of imposing central policy and management controls."
10.2307_3110243	1995	"Since Richard Nixon, presidents have had the staff capability to manage domestic policy. With the creation of the Domestic Council in 1970, Nixon and his successors were able to use an in-house organizational structure to establish a domestic agenda and move that agenda through the policy process. Presidents have used the domestic policy office with varying degrees of success depending on their interactions with department personnel. Ronald Reagan, more than any other modern president, used the White House domestic policy staff to ensure departmental support for presidential policies. The White House Office of Policy Development worked closely with cabinet officers to constantly reinforce their support for and understanding of Reagan's key policy objectives. In addition, the White House controlled political personnel nominations to ensure ideological consistency with the Reagan agenda."
10.2307_977105	1991	"What determines the relatively low number of cause findings by employment discrimination investigators in equal employment opportunity agencies? Studies by the GAO indicate that the problem can be traced to failure of investigators to follow official guidelines. Based on a study of cases handled by a regional office of a state equal employment opportunity agency, Lenahan O'Connell argues that the reasons are found elsewhere-in the conservative standards of proof applied in such cases, in the bureaucratic and legal constraints imposed on investigators, and in the tendency for investigators to rely on conservative informal performance rules. Calling for greater attention to these factors rather than formalized procedures, O'Connell proposes a number of steps that can be taken to enhance the performance of employment discrimination investigators."
10.2307_975472	1987	"Recent presidents have come to office with distrust and hostility toward the career bureaucracy and have increased the numbers of political appointees and White House control over appointments in order to cope with this perceived problem. This article offers evidence that this distrust is misplaced and that most administrations experience a ""cycle of accommodation"" with the career bureaucracy. It argues that the capacity of the White House is being strained and the effectiveness of the government is being undermined by the present trend toward increasing numbers of inexperienced political appointees. It concludes that the system of presidentially-appointed executives heading departments and agencies is a good one, but that the balance should be shifted back toward fewer presidential appointees. Reversing this trend will increase the capacity of the government to function efficiently and effectively without sacrificing political accountability or responsiveness."
10.2307_976413	1991	"Can the values of public administration practitioners embody both professionalism and political acuity? A growing chorus of analysts are contending that they can and do. In this article, Professors Daniel and Rose provide means for measuring both dimensions and find a weak but positive relationship between the two among their sample of public managers in the State of Kentucky."
10.2307_3110437	1986	"This article offers support for McCurdy's and Cleary's findings about the nature and quality of dissertation research and points out that dissertation research has little influence on the dissemination of knowledge through publishing. The responsibility for the quality of dissertation research is located with the dissertation committee members, based on the practical discourse model of the growth of knowledge. Several possible actions are suggested to improve dissertations and their contribution to publications in public administration."
10.2307_976861	1990	"Until quite recently, the fortunes of the field of public administration and the institutional presidency were closely linked. Today, however, they are estranged, and both now follow separate agendas with respect to organizational and management issues, although neither can be said to be guided by a discernible set of principles or common purposes. Two intellectual trends account for much of this estrangement; the gradual abandonment by public administrators and political leaders alike of the traditional principles of organizational management and the redefining of the basis of presidential power and responsibility away from public law and administrative management toward a highly personal and politicized definition of the institutional presidency. The consequences of these trends have been costly to public administration as a field and to the political system generally. The challenge to public administration is to reverse these trends. This can be done only by reinvigorating the field's conceptual capital through a reconsideration of the utility of tested principles of organization and a reassessment of the proper managerial role for the President. The purpose of this rebuilding exercise is to assist governmental institutions to maintain their fundamental public law character while encouraging adaptation to a rapidly changing political environment."
10.2307_976800	1992	"Should public management researchers emulate the scientific approaches of physicists and other scientists? Robert D. Behn argues they should, as long as they understand and appreciate the metaphorical nature of those scientific methods. Using physics and engineering examples, Behn shows that the creative use of language and stories underlies many of the great advances in those areas, and that the adoption of certain concepts is related to their practical usefulness. Adopting this perspective will, Behn argues, give social scientists a greater appreciation of the contributions made by Tom Peters and other popular writers on management. It will also help public management researchers develop metaphors and other concepts that can enhance the value of their work for the public managers they study."
10.2307_975666	1984	"This article examines the adoption and use of computer technology by cities under 50,000 and counties under 100,000 in seven plains and mountain states. Smaller local governments were found to lag considerably behind their larger counterparts in computer adoption and extent of use. However, patterns of use were not substantially different, with basic ""housekeeping"" functions being the most frequently automated. Computer adoption was associated with size, government form and type, and metropolitan status. No relationship was found between financial status and computer adoption. Most governments used in-house computers, and most of these systems were minicomputers. The frequency of microcomputer adoption paralleled that reported in a recent nationwide study of micro use in city governments. Most in-house systems represented relatively current technology. Over 70 percent of these systems had been purchased from three of the country's largest computer vendors, IBM, NCR, and Burroughs. Current use of computers was associated with future plans to acquire automated technology and with the type of system a government planned to buy. However, current use did not affect attitudes toward the future use of computers in general or micros in particular."
10.2307_977197	1996	"In 1989, Nelson W. Polsby and Martin Landau, of the Institute of Governmental Studies at the University of California, Berkeley, contemplated an experiment to preserve the intellectual heritage of public administration by having people in the field ""write autobiographically about their intellectual lives"" and collecting their compositions. As part of the experiment, they invited me, among others, to submit an essay. Recently, Larry Terry, now the book review editor of PAR, called the essay to the attention of Melvin Dubnick, the managing editor, who suggested that I submit it for publication in the journal. This article, slightly altered to bring it up to date, is that essay. The title is meant to indicate that while some fortunate people hear the music of the spheres, I seem to have hearkened to less celestial strains."
10.2307_3110438	1986	"This paper addresses the nature of research in doctoral programs in public administration. It argues that research problems in the field should be determined by the analytic form of public sector activity rather than by the substantive content of specific events. Recognizing that firsthand experience in the world of practice results only in an ""acquaintance with"" type of knowledge is prerequisite to achieving a more constructive relationship between theory, research, and practice. The methods of research rather than the techniques of management provide the analytical skills necessary for theoretically significant inquiry."
10.2307_975309	1987	"This article challenges the viewpoint that public administration is an American invention. Virtually every significant concept that existed in the American literature as late as 1937 had already been published in France by 1859; most had been published by 1812. The French literature included the politics/administration dichotomy (with its refutation), 68 ""principles,"" the elements of POSDCORB, and techniques for the motivation of workers. On the weak side, French literature lacked the focus on supervisor-worker relationships that Taylor brought to American theorists. Therefore, the French could not anticipate the motivational studies that became common in the United States after 1938. The French literature is described here through concepts that later became popular in the United States. The strengths and weaknesses of the two traditions are compared. The article then suggests reasons why the French literature disappeared and speculates on lessons that American public administration can learn from the difficulties encountered by the French."
10.2307_977388	1994	"Is the same ""quiet crisis"" documented at higher government levels taking place in local public service? The authors investigate whether politicization, inadequate compensation, lack of managerial discretion, or workplace diversification are affecting local public service. They find that unlike higher levels, city managers and department heads are influential in local personnel matters. Compensation and benefits are considered, by local officials, to be competitive with the private sector in their communities. Like higher levels, however, accommodating workplace diversity is a continuing challenge. The study concludes that local personnel systems deserve more systematic study."
10.2307_976164	1986	"Many democratic countries have been impelled to adapt their budget practices during the past decade to adverse financial conditions. These adjustments have reoriented budgeting from a growth process to one which emphasizes the conservation of resources. This article identifies adaptations relating to total expenditure and is based on a study conducted by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. The principal adjustments have been: fiscal norms and targets that constrain agency budget requests; the conversion of multiyear budgeting from a planning to a control process; the use of baselines to compute cutback objectives; and prepreparation techniques which strengthen the conservation function of budgeting. In most countries, these changes have been introduced without overhaul of the established budget process."
10.2307_975439	1986	"Are women and minorities as likely to supervise employees and to manage programs as are white males at the same levels in the federal bureaucracy? This study argues that they are not, based on analysis of a one percent sample of federal personnel records for 1982."
10.2307_977290	1990	"This commentary in observance of the beginning of the Fiftieth Anniversary of the Public Administration Review refocuses attention on the central purposes of the field: service to citizens and facilitation of effective citizens. It reflects present-day concerns and experience-based means to deal with them, as understood by one of public administration's most senior practitioner scholars."
10.2307_976676	1994	"Does hermeneutics provide a useful framework for the study and practice of public administration? Danny L. Balfour and William Mesaros argue that a shift toward the hermeneutic perspective can move public administration towards the cutting edge of social research and practice while promoting the values of mutuality, understanding, and improved communication. Hermeneutics can help the field move away from methodological debates and toward more practical, cooperative research and an enhanced focus on the substantive issues that define and energize public policy and administration."
10.2307_3110147	1985	"Government managers face formidable challenges in today's complex economic, political, and social environment. Reforms proposed to deal with unprecedented budget deficits will increase pressures on managers to cut programs, reduce costs, and more effectively administer activities. However, current federal financial management structure and systems cannot provide managers timely and reliable information required to meet this challenge. Financial reports today provide a flood of information, but it is often incomplete, inconsistent, and unreliable. Decisions on public capital investment are uncoordinated, and capital expenditures have little visibility in the budget process. Major commitments of resources, such as retirement benefits, are only partially recognized. Other activities, such as the loan portfolio of the Federal Financing Bank, are entirely excluded from budget totals. Reform must be comprehensive and government-wide in scope, serving needs of both Congress and the executive branch. Four key elements are needed: 1. Strengthened accounting, auditing, and reporting 2. Systematic measurement of performance 3. Improved planning and programming 4. Streamlined budget process. Individual managers have large stakes in outcomes of actions on these needs. Only through effective financial management can managers know themselves and demonstrate to others the effectiveness of their operations."
10.2307_976970	1990	"Luther Gulick, at age 98, brings unmatched perspective to today's needs and opportunities. In this commentary in observance of the Fiftieth Anniversary of the Public Administration Review, he focuses on future challenges, following reflections on early developments in public administration. He calls for fundamental reforms in the field and in politics and government generally. Among his many services to the field, Luther Gulick has made numerous contributions to PAR. He served on the original Board of Editors. His past articles included the lead essay in observance of PAR's Twenty-Fifth Anniversary and a classic article on time in the special 1987 issue on the Bicentennial of the United States Constitution. It is a privilege to publish this current PAR contribution to the field-a distinctive forward-looking call for new reform in the 1990s. Two articles immediately following this essay briefly highlight Luther Gulick's enormously important leadership. The first, by Lyle Fitch, is a biographical sketch and general assessment of Gulick's broad-ranging work. The second, by Paul Van Riper, briefly reviews Gulick's contributions to the literature of public administration. Annmarie Walsh of the Institute of Public Administration, and IPA's past president, helped to facilitate PAR publication of these three articles."
10.2307_975778	1986	"Recent evolution of the French administrative system has revived a question which has been present since the beginning of the Fifth Republic, that of its political accountability. The growing needs for managers to legitimate their choices in an era of scarcity as well as the increasing pressure of public opinion have provided impetus for reexamining policy evaluation procedures. In the French political-administrative interface, analytical capacities are used much less than in the United States. The reasons for this state of policy evaluation can be surmised to lie in the cultural traditions, the political process with little resort to information-based consensus, and the administrative system based on legalistic and introverted patterns. When reviewed within this context, the reforms undertaken thus far may have little impact on the quality of public programs. These limited changes failed to address several of the larger administrative and political issues concerning the decision-making process."
10.2307_3135020	1985	"In our increasingly litigious society, the caseload and workload of courts have grown rapidly. Judges and administrators must give greater attention to court management and innovations that will improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the administration of justice. After briefly reviewing the accomplishments of the leaders of American court administration, this article identifies some of the important management challenges that face judicial administration in the 21st century, and it offers suggestions on how to respond to them and how to improve the administration of justice."
10.2307_976160	1986	"U. S. foreign policy normally develops first as an inchoate popular consensus, then is codified by experts and is announced by ""leaders,"" including the President of the United States, only when the consensus is well formed. In these circumstances the President's task is not ""to make policy."" It is to cohere and to consult: to formulate in an understandable strategy the many things the U. S. government is trying to do at any one time to carry the people's policy into action; and to decide with which governments and nongovernments around the world to consult, how early, how often, and how candidly."
10.2307_976744	1991	"How do the French approach ethical issues in public administration? John A. Rohr provides a comparative perspective on public administration ethics by focusing on how the French deal with three issues that attract considerable debate in the United States: conflict of interest, the political activities of civil servants, and the requirement of an oath of office. His critical analysis shows some major differences in how each country handles these issues. There are sharp differences reflected in financial disclosure requirements, and American public administrators face stricter enforcement of postemployment regulations. While allowing their civil servants to partake in a more active political life than do their U. S. counterparts, the French impose a ""complicated and somewhat amorphous standard"" of political neutrality that Rohr questions on several grounds. Rohr finds differences regarding oath requirements that are rooted in the historical experiences of each society. Finally, Rohr contends that while it would be unwise for Americans simply to imitate French standards and practices, we can deepen our understanding of our own standards and practices by examining those of other countries like France."
10.2307_975603	1988	"This article reports on the major findings of a study of information resources management (IRM) at the federal level. The study found that IRM has not penetrated very far across departments and down into bureau management. Information technology management dominates IRM activities, and the end result may be a failure to build a long-term IRM capability. Information is still considered a ""free good"" in most department and bureau managers' views, and federal paperwork reduction requirements commonly are seen as a wasteful bureaucratic burden. Recommendations for practice include (a) changing the current IRM oversight focus to IRM program support and long-term capacity building, (b) developing an IRM governance base as the first step to improving IRM, (c) providing incentives for information management efforts, and (d) revisiting the Paperwork Reduction Act requirements to deal with problematic paperwork reduction rules. Research in several areas is also recommended."
10.2307_3110030	1985	"The United States will soon celebrate completion of 50 presidential terms of office and 39 different presidents. Transitions of presidential leadership have occurred without a breakdown in the system of government, but the costs and dangers have sometimes been high. In foreign affairs today, the problems are most serious. Government by amateurs is a pervasive problem which is probably worsening. Campaign promises and pressures to act on them during initial days in office result in actions by a new administration when it is often least informed and inadequately staffed. Instead of starting as if from a clean slate, incoming administrators should listen and learn from those whose jobs they are assuming. Both greater sophistication and good will are needed to meet transition problems responsibly."
10.2307_976806	1992	"What role do midyear budget adjustments play in municipal governments? In a survey of officials from central city governments, John P. Forrester and Daniel R. Mullins found ""rebudgeting"" to be common and significant factors in the budgeting processes of many cities. While often regarded by officials as merely an extension of the normal budgetary process, Forrester and Mullins find the rebudgeting process to be less visible and more technically driven, giving a greater role to administrators than to either the public or the legislature. They also find that the process impacts differently on different services. The authors discuss the political and policy making implications of rebudgeting and the need for more analyses of the conditions under which it occurs."
10.2307_975992	1984	"The purpose of this article is to report and interpret data from the 1980 National Survey of Fishing, Hunting, and Wildlife-Associated Recreation that are most relevant to the issue of evaluating alternative mechanisms for funding wildlife conservation, particularly nongame species. The data presented in this study was produced by means of the first comprehensive nationwide survey targeted at non-consumptive wildlife users. Nonconsumptive participants favor the idea of obtaining new sources of revenue to support nongame conservation based on voluntary contributions and general taxes. Data are also presented concerning expenditures on more than 20 items that might be used in wildlife oriented activities and which may be suitable for an excise tax to generate funds for nongame management. Although no single item is directly comparable to the items taxed for federal aid related to game management (Pittman-Robertson and Dingell-Johnson programs), a number of areas have considerable potential for generating revenue for nongame conservation."
10.2307_975440	1986	"Recent studies of state assumption of the CDBG-Small Cities program have been limited by two factors. First, they have been single-state case studies or confined to a small number of states. Second, they have adopted a narrow context for examining the likely impacts of community development following state assumption. This paper attempts to expand policy information based upon earlier work by studying a larger cross-section of states and considering the issues of redistribution and decentralization from a broader context. We find some significant policy changes from previous HUD program management but suggest that such may be due to the CDBG economic development amendment and an increase in multipurpose projects in the states. Unlike Morgan and England's (1984) recent article in PAR, we suggest that decentralization may not necessarily lead to decreasing redistributive community development policies in the states. Rather, redistribution may be incorporated within the enlarging proportion of multipurpose projects."
10.2307_3110439	1986	"Legislators have recently begun to evaluate the need for and performance of occupational regulation. Much of this evaluation has been ""forced"" on state legislatures by sunset laws which automatically terminate occupational licensing agencies unless these agencies are actively reauthorized by legislative statute. This is a case study of sunset review of occupational licensing agencies by the Texas state legislature. Changes in agency structure, policy, and procedure as a result of the sunset review are analyzed. The analysis also investigates to what extent changes in occupational regulatory agencies are the result of political influence by powerful agencies and their respective constituencies. The author concludes that standard changes are adopted for all agencies. However, larger, more powerful licensing agencies are able to resist many significant changes. This ability to resist stems both from the agency's clout as well as from a legitimate need for regulation of some areas."
10.2307_977198	1996	"In this article, Golembiewski adopts a futuristic view, resting on four contributors to the present uneasy state of the field but focusing on a dozen ""action items"" that can help remedy matters. Selectivity dominates, but nonetheless the autor outlines the major thrusts required to move beyond the present condition of the field-expressed as ""an intellectual crisis,"" a ""stuckness,"" or by related metaphors."
10.2307_3110124	1993	How can a useful performance monitoring system be designed? Gary T. Henry and Kent C. Dickey describe the use of a research and development model to develop an effective performance monitoring system as part of the State of Virginia's efforts in educational reform. They provide details on how the approach was implemented and discuss both the limits and risks involved.
10.2307_3110247	1995	"Has the Clinton administration politicized the USDA Forest Service? John M. Vandlik discusses the appointment of Jack Ward Thomas as the new chief, and first political appointee, of the Forest Service. He asserts that such an appointment provides a needed element of political accountability to an agency which is guided by a statutory mission that is dependent upon agency value judgments."
10.2307_975313	1987	"Equal opportunity has been a major issue in American public administration for the past two decades. Schools of public affairs are a major avenue by which young professionals enter public administration careers and thus can facilitate entry by minorities into the public work force. This study examines efforts of NASPAA-member graduate programs to recruit and prepare Black and Hispanic students for government careers. While enrollments of Blacks and Hispanics have increased in the past decade, evidence reveals a need for further efforts by public administration graduate programs to enhance educational opportunities for these minorities and thus increase their employment opportunities."
10.2307_977108	1991	"Was the Volcker Commission correct in its assertion that the federal civil service is losing high-quality employees due to the declining relative pay and prestige of government service? Gregory Lewis examined thousands of federal employee personnel files covering the period 1973 to 1989 to answer that question. On the surface, federal white-collar employment during that period seems ""remarkably stable,"" primarily due to the impact of baby boom demographics. However, Lewis finds patterns beneath that veneer ""that may bode ill for the civil service in the future. Propensities to leave federal service have risen among employees with substantial federal experience and perhaps among the college-educated."" As the baby boomers begin to approach retirement age in a decade, the hidden problems of the civil service will become more evident. That leaves some ""breathing space in which to develop a policy response"" to the ""quiet crisis"" noted by the Volcker Commission."
10.2307_977008	1989	"Efforts to enhance Black representation in city police organizations in the United States have met with resistance from many quarters, including many police unions that have charged ""reverse discrimination."" The Reagan Administration sought the reversal of affirmative action consent decrees previously approved by the U. S. Justice Department. Nevertheless, considerable progress was made toward increasing Black representation in police bureaucracies during the decade 1975-1985. Among 46 large city police departments, the mean Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Index was .57 in 1975, rising dramatically to .75 by 1985. This research shows, however, that as Black percentages in city labor forces increase, a corresponding decline occurs in police department EEO indexes, a measure of representativeness, suggesting the likelihood of continuing resistance to affirmative action effort. Regression results also show Black mayors, Black police chiefs, and affirmative action consent decrees emerging in 1985 as the most powerful variables associated with increasing Black percentages in police sworn ranks."
10.2307_977335	1989	"The article examines Herbert Simon's notion of a ""design"" science and discusses its applicability to the field of public administration. Public administration, as a design science, exists at the nexus between the inner and outer environments of public organizations. As such, it integrates and synthesizes theories and propositions from other disciplines including the behavioral sciences, the system sciences, and the natural sciences. In addition to being concerned with descriptive aspects of the field, public administration scholars must be willing to prescribe, to design, and to redesign public sector systems. A framework for assessing design opportunities is developed, and questions raised by this approach are addressed."
10.2307_975765	1988	"This article explores the utility of indices of local discretionary authority developed by Joseph F. Zimmerman. While Zimmerman's general indices for city and county government are found to be of limited value because of methodological problems, the separate dimensions of these indices are found useful in generating theories as to how questions of local discretion are handled on the state level."
10.2307_975886	1987	"Privatization, as a concept and as a political movement, is profoundly altering the shape of the public sector in the United States. Distinctions between the public and private sectors are being blurred as the organizations for accomplishing public purposes are more and more frequently a deliberate blend of public and private characteristics. Throughout this transformation in the public sector, the discipline and profession most directly affected by privatization, public administration, has been remarkably passive, both unwilling and unable to raise critical questions respecting the limits, if any, to privatization. This essay suggests that the origins of this passivity lie in the reality that public administration has largely forsaken its intellectual roots-roots which are embedded in public law, not in economics or the social sciences. Only by returning to public law, which emphasizes the distinctive character of the public and private sectors, will public administrators become influential players in the continuing debate over the future of the public sector."
10.2307_977362	1993	"What can managers learn from lowly workers and ordinary people? Beginning with a story of a dam that failed, Mary Schmidt describes four alternative kinds of knowledge that differ from the mainstream concept of scientific knowledge. Referring to these types of knowledge as ""a feel for the hole,"" ""intimate knowledge,"" ""passive/critical knowledge,"" and ""a feel for the whole,"" Schmidt argues that science, engineering, and bureaucratic institutions, under a common model of reality, often ignore and suppress these insightful kinds of knowledge. Examples from biological science and ideas from organizational theory suggest a richer model of nature and of man-made reality and a broader concept of rationality in decision making. She concludes with general characteristics of such knowledge and an application to public administration."
10.2307_976253	1988	"The Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB), which establishes accounting principles for state and local governments, embarked in 1985 upon a research effort which may have a profound impact on public financial management. If successful, the research could lead to the creation of accounting guidelines encouraging, perhaps ultimately requiring, state and local finance officers to include performance measures of efficiency and effectiveness in their annual financial reports. These reports, in turn, are readily available for decision making by governmental officials, taxpayers, the media, credit rating firms, and other financial institutions. This article reports on GASB's research effort, using the participation of the City of Wooster, Ohio, as well as ongoing research in the hospital field, to illustrate the details and potential impact of this endeavor. In a sense, the GASB research project is the culmination of decades of research-oriented attempts to measure efficiency and effectiveness in the public sector, to develop performance-based budget systems, and to encourage meaningful financial reporting."
10.2307_977104	1991	"What is the constitutional status of government set-aside programs? That is an important question for those involved in the design or implementation of public sector efforts to promote minority business development through set-asides. The answer depends on which level of government establishes the program. Professor Rice provides a survey of three U. S. Supreme Court decisions relevant to set-aside programs: Fullilove v. Klutznick (1980), the City of Richmond v. J. A. Croson Co. (1989), and Metro Broadcasting v. Federal Communications Commission (1990). While the Fullilove decision seemed to many to authorize set-aside legislation at all levels of government, the Croson case provided a stricter standard by which state and local programs were to be assessed. While maintaining the ""strict-scrutiny"" standard for state and local programs used in Croson, the Metro Broadcasting decision reinforces the Court's Fullilove finding that supports judicial deference to congressional power to identify and redress the effects of society-wide discrimination. Rice concludes with examples of recent studies being conducted in Atlanta and elsewhere that attempt to deal with the Court's criteria for establishing non-federal set-aside programs."
10.2307_976600	1991	"Can public sector facilities management be made more effective? David Lewis believes it can, and in the process the nation can save millions of dollars. Using examples drawn from several school districts in Washington State, Lewis argues for the adoption of planned facility maintenance programs combining total energy management and preventive maintenance strategies. The costs of such programs are more than offset by energy savings and extended asset life."
10.2307_976847	1989	"Attracting and retaining competent public servants is an issue which has been drawing more public attention in the aftermath of the bureaucrat bashing of the late 1970s and early 1980s. Inducing bright, entry-level people to enter the public service in an era of retrenchment has been recognized as a challenge meriting more attention. The Presidential Management Internship Program is one vehicle that has been doing just that. The data from this study of Presidential Management Interns from the 1978 through 1984 classes confirms that the program has been successful in recruiting talented people to federal service. However, some problem of retention remains primarily because of interns' disenchantment with the bureaucracy."
10.2307_3109938	1985	State governments are incorporating more sophisticated tools into their budgeting/management processes and finding them effective. The increased interest in developing more effective procedures and providing a stronger data base for program analysis and evaluation is shared by both executive and legislative branches. A 1984 survey of all 50 states reflects trends which have important implications for decision making and resource allocation.
10.2307_976521	1994	"Is the current emphasis on performance appraisal in public sector agencies appropriate to efforts to adopt total quality management (TQM)? Jim Bowman claims that performance appraisal's focus on assessing and changing individual behavior is misguided. In contrast, TQM stresses improvements in work processes rather than in individual employee performance. Bowman reviews the barriers performance appraisal has posed to TQM and considers various scenarios for the future of quality management in the public sector under such circumstances."
10.2307_975467	1987	"American constitutional and administrative systems have been mainly shaped by indigenous forces, but during their formative stages they were affected by a variety of external influences. These included constitutional and administrative precedents from ancient and classical empires and city-states, European feudalism and absolutist monarchies, the British polity, and contemporary nations. More recently, American features such as constitutionalism, federalism, and presidentialism have been models for other nations, often with unanticipated consequences. Just as an American imprint has been put on borrowings from foreign sources, other nations have been selective in using American models and have later modified or adapted them in practice. A comparative perspective will continue to assist in an understanding of the origins and the influence of constitutional and administrative systems developed in the United States."
10.2307_975442	1986	"Chief executives at both the national and state levels regularly promise to reduce the cost and improve the performance of government by overhauling the bureaucracy. Modern political scientists, however, tend to dismiss these claims as empty rhetoric. Indeed, reorganization for economy and efficiency (the traditional model) has been largely discredited in the contemporary academic literature, and it has been replaced by a new (political) model. Yet, the fact remains that we know very little about the bottom line results of reorganization because empirical analysis is almost nonexistent. In this paper, the bottom line results of a 1982 statewide reorganization in New Jersey are systematically analyzed. Based on the findings of this analysis, the author concludes that the pendulum has swung too far in one direction with the current and nearly exclusive emphasis on the political dimensions of reorganization."
10.2307_976229	1986	"Since the Privacy Act was passed in 1974, at least two generations of information technology have become available to federal agencies, offering new means to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of data collection and program management. The new technology also has the potential of undermining the goal of the Act to protect individuals by controlling information about them. This review explores the changing nature of the concept of privacy. It then examines advances in computer and data communications technologies which are now available to federal agencies and the uses of these technologies in processing personal information. It concludes with some observations on the implications of these developments for privacy protection."
10.2307_977106	1991	"What are the possibilities for congressional action on a generic law to establish public accountability over government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs)? Focusing on the case of a 1987 statute creating the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation (Farmer Mac), Professor Lloyd Musolf finds that the interest group politics surrounding that legislation did not generate concern about the need to deal with the accountability issues associated with GSEs. The narrower concerns of those groups failed to draw attention to the broader issues implied in the choice of a GSE mechanism, despite the growing fiscal impacts and administrative implications of these organizations. Musolf also addresses the possibility of such generic legislation in light of the recent savings-and-loan crisis."
10.2307_976669	1994	"What barriers lie between women and equitable consideration for their promotion within the federal government? Katherine C. Naff contends that although discrimination against women has been illegal in the federal government since 1964, women are still severely underrepresented in managerial ranks. Using a unique dataset compiled by the U. S. Merit Systems Protection Board, the author examines factors accounting for the successful advancement of women and what those factors may indicate about why women have not made more progress. She concludes that differences in experience and education only partially account for the discrepancy and that assumptions about women's potential and career commitment remain in conflict with traditional criteria for evaluating employees' promotion potential. The author also probes various perceptions and finds that many women believe they face stereotypes that question their competence. The author concludes by suggesting concrete steps agencies and managers can and should take to dismantle the glass ceiling."
10.2307_975588	1987	"Proposals for a national balanced budget amendment have implicitly assumed that we all know a balanced budget when we see one. This case study of the politics of budgeting under a balanced budget constraint indicates that the concepts of a balanced budget and of surpluses are not neutral accounting terms without political implications. Instead, they are subject to political and accounting games that can misinform the public about fiscal status. We suggest looking at the budget in alternative ways that highlight the misinformation which current indicators provide. The implication throughout is that, before jumping to a national balanced budget amendment, experiences of the states should be examined to see what kinds of politics develop around such mechanical panaceas."
10.2307_976475	1992	"Did the 1990 Augustine Committee Report on the future of the space program deal effectively with the problems facing NASA? Although generally favorable in their assessment of the Committee's work, the authors in this symposium provide critiques of the Augustine Report from a variety of public administration perspectives. Jay Shafritz considers how the Committee approached issues dealing with the civilian space program's human resource needs Howard McCurdy provides critical insight into the ""organizational culture"" approach used by the Committee, while Arthur Levine (the symposium editor) focuses on how the Committee handled issues related to the organizational structure of NASA and the space program. Henry Lambright draws attention to the need for greater presidential leadership, another issue not effectively addressed in the Augustine Report. Finally, John Logsdon offers comments regarding the committee's lack of sufficient attention to the international dimensions of the civilian space program."
10.2307_3110033	1985	"This paper describes an important and pervasive use of policy analysis as a retrograde tactic in bureaucratic politics. Employed by those opposed to a policy initiative, the retrograde tactic permits bureaucrats to delay and sometimes reverse political initiatives at various stages of the policy process through the demand for analysis. After placing the retrograde tactic into the general context of the bureaucratic environment, we focus on the case of the controversy over the appropriate size of the U.S. strategic petroleum reserve-a controversy where the demand for analysis was used as an effective retrograde tactic by opponents of expansion."
10.2307_976526	1994	"What will ""new governance"" mean for the federal government? DeWitt John and colleagues provide a ""rough map"" of the future based on discussions organized by the National Academy of Public Administration. What they see is an effort to ""combine old and new ideas"" into a more flexible, results-oriented approach to the public's business."
10.2307_977044	1996	"What is the role played by women in public administration research? Analysis of research-based articles in all issues of Public Administration Review (PAR) during its first 56 years (1940-1995) indicate that articles written by women follow three distinct patterns. First, women tend to co-author with members of their own sex far less than men co-author with other men. Second, the annual rate of publication by women is traditionally far less than for men. A third pattern, that of women contributing much more to the research effort, appears to be emerging in the 1990s. The new pattern might be related to the increasing mentorship capacity of women with senior rank in public administration."
10.2307_3109964	1985	"Employee assistance programs (EAPs) provided by government and industry are designed to help employees deal with personal problems that seriously affect job performance. During the last ten years, EAPs have increased significantly in numbers and importance. A study of programs for state employees shows that 39 states now have some form of EAP. The coverage and type of organization for state EAPs varies widely. The most frequently used counseling services provided are alcohol rehabilitation, individual psychological counseling, stress management, and drug abuse programs. The average direct program cost of the state EAPs in 1982 was $95,544. A number of problems were encountered in establishing the EAPs, but a significant ongoing problem is that the dollar or productivity benefits of the programs still have not been well documented."
10.2307_3110028	1985	"This paper is adapted from the presidential address delivered at the 1985 national conference of ASPA. President Naomi Lynn invites ASPA members to join in a celebration that will continue through the end of this decade. This period is important because it includes anniversaries of significant events in our country's and ASPA's histories. Although public service is going through a difficult period, it has much in which to take pride. ASPA members are encouraged to support the oral history project inaugurated this year in preparation for the 50th anniversary of the Society's founding. PAR and the Committee on Three Centuries also solicit papers to stimulate debate and reflection on the constitutional bicentennial. ASPA's greatest challenge is to apply the understandings and ideals of the past to the ever-changing, practical problems of the present and future."
10.2307_976453	1996	"The National Performance Review (NPR) can be analyzed in terms of its ostensible purpose of making government ""work better and cost less,"" or it can be looked at in terms of the tactical opportunities it presents to actors in multiple arenas. Tactical maneuvers relating to NPR are apparent in the political strategies of the Clinton administration, in the attempted shift in power from the legislative to the executive branch of of government, and in the role of the central staff agencies in the executive branch. The authors present the results of their investigation into the reinvention labs that have been established in federal agencies and into the organizational politics that accompany these attempts at innovation. Their findings show the extent to which the outcomes of organizational change processes are a function of the self-interested behaviors of individuals and they confirm the value of political models for understanding organizational change processes."
10.2307_977387	1994	"Did tax reform kill segmentation in the municipal bond market? The series of tax reform acts of the 1980s resulted in significant changes in the municipal bond market. In particular, tax reform resulted in commercial banks being replaced by tax-exempt money market funds as the primary market for short-term securities. As a consequence, the prevailing theory of market segmentation that is based upon banks as the primary market for short-term debt and individuals as the primary market for long-term debt is no longer valid. Marlin develops alternative theory of short-term yield determination based on money market demand is developed and empirically verifies it. The conclusion is that segmentation still exists, but in a substantially different form."
10.2307_977333	1989	"This article takes implementation theory one critical step farther. It argues that administrative policy making is a separate, distinguishable process, not a stage in or component of the legislative policy-making process. In addition, it argues that the institutional setting for policy making has a major influence on policy ideas, choices, and actions. Administrative agencies form a distinct institutional setting for policy politics, and setting influences policy outcomes. The implications of the institutional perspective for understanding policy making, policy analysis, and the legitimacy of public organizations are examined."
10.2307_3110053	1996	"Do state budget officials regularly underforecast revenue collections, and, if so, why? Analysis of 336 forecast errors for the 50 states from fiscal year 1975 through fiscal year 1992 indicated that the revenues collected by the states have been, on average, 2.1 percent more than the revenues that were forecasted. During recessions, revenue forecasts were much more accurate than during economic expansions: The average forecast error during recessions was near zero, while the average forecast error during economic expansions was quite large. Interviews with state budget officials suggested to the authors that the reason why the forecasts of revenues have been so accurate during economic downturns and so inaccurate during periods of economic prosperity is because states routinely underforecast revenues."
10.2307_976598	1991	"Does how we teach public administration make a difference? Danny Balfour and Frank Marini argue that it does, and that public administration educators have spent too little time debating pedagogical techniques. Mirroring McGregor's classic distinction between management theories X and Y, the authors posit alternative education theories X and Y. Theory X treats learners as passive children whose teachers must make all curriculum decisions and lead students toward preparation for the future. Theory Y views students as relatively autonomous and self-directed learners whose experience is a resource and who can actively participate in the educational process. Public administration education in the future, Balfour and Marini contend, must operate under the assumptions provided by theory Y."
10.2307_976864	1990	"A half-century review of interjurisdictional relationships discloses a dramatic rise in the complexity and interdependency among governmental units and policy actors in the U. S. political system. A 50-year review also reveals the utility of three concepts for understanding contemporary patterns: (1) federalism, (2) intergovernmental relations, and (3) intergovernmental management. The distinctive features of these three concepts are identified and compared across six system characteristics, e. g., authority patterns, conflict resolution methods, leading actors. Three sets of actors-elected politicians, generalist administrators, and professional program managers-are joint participants in shaping national-state-local relations in the 1990s and beyond."
10.2307_3110295	1999	"Many governments have attempted to reform their public management systems over the past decade. But how do reforms play out at the frontline of government where the work is done? We looked at the impacts of system changes on frontline staff. In an effort to understand the actual work orientations of frontline bureaucrats, we identified four distinctive images of bureaucratic work: procedural bureaucracy, corporate bureaucracy, market bureaucracy, and network bureaucracy. These images each have different foci on the use of goals, relationships with clients, approach to supervision, disciplinary strategies, and relations with other key organizations in their environment. Looking at government, private nonprofit, and private for-profit organizations, we found only three distinct images. The distinct market and corporate orientations we proposed merged into a single orientation not previously identified or analyzed in the research literature. We also found considerable variation among frontline bureaucrats in their orientations toward bureaucracy. Practitioners appeared to follow three common repertoires, but these were not determined by the type of organization they worked in. Managers wishing to prioritize frontline work may now identify the key attributes of these alternate approaches and compare them with performance information or use them to assess the training needs of agencies contributing to their programs. Clients and their advocates may also use these results to assess their changing prospects under different bureaucratic conditions."
10.2307_3110228	2000	"In the past decade, most large public-sector organizations have adopted a philosophy of valuing workforce diversity and have implemented a variety of initiatives for effectively utilizing and managing the current and projected workforce diversity. However, whether organizational members subscribe to the diversity value or support the employer-sponsored diversity-management initiatives still largely remains unanswered. This article discusses the influence of employee race/ethnicity and gender identity, associated stereotyping and prejudice, and the nature of interpersonal relations on acceptance of diversity and support for diversity-management initiatives. The hypothesis that these three variables have a significant influence on receptivity to diversity in the workplace was empirically tested in a case study of diversity-management practices of a federal agency, and the study findings are reported in this article."
10.2307_977403	2003	"Budget execution traditionally has been defined as a straightforward process of implementing the budget as approved. Research into the process has been limited, particularly with regard to local government budgets. This article examines the rebudgeting process using a case study of 15 West Virginia cities. Rebudgeting displayed a consistent pattern for the various budget categories-personnel, contracts, commodities, capital, and contributions-closely resembling the ""increase-then-decrease"" pattern seen in the overall budget. Empirical data on budgetary adjustments and structured interviews with city finance officials helped to describe budget changes and explain probable causes and effects of behavior during budget execution for these smaller cities. Budget changes were found to be the result of managerial necessity and the exercise of discretion to generate and distribute surpluses."
10.2307_976884	1998	"Governments have become increasingly responsible for financing arenas and stadiums. It has now become commonplace to use broad-based or special taxes to build or operate these facilities with teams retaining most or all of the revenues. Some communities have invested more than $500 million in such facilities. To justify the use of tax dollars proponents point to economic and intangible benefits. This study reviews the economic benefits from teams and analyzes, for the first time, the intangible benefits. The results indicate that fans, players, and owners are the prime beneficiaries of a team's presence. As a result, investments by the public sector in facilities should rely on a special user tax district that insures that those who benefit from the facilities bear the cost. A financing plan is presented that any city or county could follow to fund an arena or stadium."
10.2307_977436	2000	"With the aim of helping move research from rhetoric to empirical reality, this article reports results of a national survey of city managers on attitudes towards and actions taken to implement principles of reinventing government. A large majority of managers support key principles of reinvention. A smaller proportion of managers has taken actions to recommend adoption of reinvention programs in their budget proposals to council. Managers' action-taking is influenced by certain characteristics of city managers, their communities, and their governments, including managers' attitudes and experiences, slack resources, and region."
10.2307_3110179	2002	"Providing public security is a fundamental function of government. As the class and degree of threat vary, government agencies must adapt to changing conditions or risk failing their basic mission. The events of September 11, 2001, illustrated the limits of governmental performance in identifying and interrupting actions intended to harm innocent citizens. These events are examined against the resources, range, and limits of governmental capacity to adapt to the emerging threat of terrorism, and an alternative perspective on administrative performance as a complex adaptive system is proposed. This perspective redefines the search for public security as a dynamic process that balances mechanisms of control with processes of information search, exchange, and feedback among public, private, and nonprofit organizations and is supported by a well-designed information infrastructure. The article concludes that the search for public security is an interactive learning process that, while guided by public organizations, must involve responsible participation by private and nonprofit organizations as well as an informed citizenry."
10.2307_977399	2003	"This article focuses on policy transfer as a form of prospective policy analysis, which we define as policy makers' attempts to assess the effect of a policy or program before it is put in place. Despite a burgeoning literature on cross-national policy transfer, there has been little systematic comparison of cases to identify either common problems or potential strategies in the practice of policy transfer. This article sets forth a rational model of policy transfer and examines, in light of that model, case studies of cross-national policy transfer spanning different policy domains. Taking into account the constraints faced by policy makers, we relax standard rational decision-making criteria and make recommendations for improving the process of policy transfer as a form of prospective policy evaluation."
10.2307_3109898	2002	"The familiar market-failure model remains quite useful for issues of price efficiency and traditional utilitarianism, but it has many shortcomings as a standard for public-value aspects of public policy and management. In a public-value-failure model, I present criteria for diagnosing values problems that are not easily addressed by market-failure models. Public-value failure occurs when: (1) mechanisms for values articulation and aggregation have broken down; (2) ""imperfect monopolies"" occur; (3) benefit hoarding occurs; (4) there is a scarcity of providers of public value; (5) a short time horizon threatens public value; (6) a focus on substitutability of assets threatens conservation of public resources; and (7) market transactions threaten fundamental human subsistence. After providing examples for diagnosis of public-values failure, including an extended example concerning the market for human organs, I introduce a ""public-failure grid"" to facilitate values choices in policy and public management."
10.2307_27697867	2009	"A number of organizations across sectors have begun efforts toward managing workforce diversity. At the federal level in the United States, almost 90 percent of agencies report that they are actively managing diversity. However, very little empirical research has tied diversity management to work group performance or other work-related outcomes. This paper uses a survey of U.S. federal employees to test the relationships between diversity management, job satisfaction, and work group performance. The findings indicate that diversity management is strongly linked to both work group performance and job satisfaction, and that people of color see benefits from diversity management above and beyond those experienced by white employees."
10.2307_4624639	2007	"In recent years, there has been a radical reinterpretation of the role of policy making and service delivery in the public domain. Policy making is no longer seen as a purely top-down process but rather as a negotiation among many interacting policy systems. Similarly, services are no longer simply delivered by professional and managerial staff in public agencies but are coproduced by users and their communities. This article presents a conceptual framework for understanding the emerging role of user and community coproduction and presents several case studies that illustrate how different forms of coproduction have played out in practice. Traditional conceptions of service planning and management are now outdated and need to be revised to account for coproduction as an integrating mechanism and an incentive for resource mobilization-a potential that is still greatly underestimated. However, coproduction in the context of multipurpose, multistakeholder networks raises important public governance issues that have implications for public services reform."
10.2307_977453	2001	"Given the substantial interest in public service ethics, this study examines its foundations as reflected in paradigmatic textbooks-a unit of analysis that informs both theory and practice in the field. The interpretative framework employed evaluates the context (the amount and placement of the topic, the use of graphics, and sources cited) as well as the content (conceptualization of management ethics and inclusion of implementation issues) of ethics found in the publications. A limited definition of a professional-one in possession of largely technical skills- is reflected in the textbooks. The implications of the findings are explored."
10.2307_3110326	2002	"This article examines several federal and state laws, such as the Worker Protection Standards and the Florida Pesticide Law, to determine whether the goals of these laws are being achieved in the State of Florida. A survey based on questions pertaining to various laws was used to gather data on farm workers in three South Florida counties. Face-to-face interviews were conducted with farm workers in Palm Beach and Indian River counties, Florida, in 1997 and in Collier County, Florida, in 1999. Overall, the findings indicate that farm workers in South Florida have been exposed to pesticides through direct or indirect spraying. The findings of the study reveal that federal and state laws-currently in place to protect the workers from pesticide exposure-are not effectively implemented, and farm workers are uninformed of the laws that exist to protect them from pesticide exposure. The study concludes with policy recommendations that will improve the implementation and enforcement of the current laws, which are designed to protect farm workers from pesticide exposure."
10.2307_25145726	2008	"One of the key recommendations of the Winter Commission was the empowerment of governors over the executive branch. However, key institutions have not evolved in this direction; the long ballot still exists in most states, and the formal powers of governors have strengthened to their probable capacity. The authors suggest that a quasi-formal power-the gubernatorial use of executive orders-may be a significant tool for empowering the governor in the state administrative realm. Analyzing all executive orders in 49 states for 2004 and 2005, they find variation in the aggregate use of and functions performed through these orders. Many executive orders do allow the government more direction and control of state bureaucracy. Finally, the authors suggest that the study of executive orders may be necessary to understand gubernatorial power in the executive arena and beyond."
10.2307_977488	2003	"Looking back on the twentieth century, the American public has witnessed numerous incidents of unethical behavior by a variety of federal, state, and local government officials. Ongoing cases of political and bureaucratic corruption raise questions about what governments are doing to prevent these ""ethical lapses."" Most state governments have comprehensive ethics laws and ethics commissions to enforce these laws. Very few studies have examined the role of ethics commissions in state government. This article stems from research conducted during 1997-98 involving more than 60 anonymous interviews with ethics officials and stakeholders in Connecticut, Florida, and New York. This analysis reveals that ethics commissions are instruments and symbols, policemen and consultants, politicians and neutral technicians, and interpreters of and prisoners to the ethics laws. The article concludes with 10 recommendations to improve ethics enforcement and the ethics-building capacity of state governments as society enters the next millennium."
10.2307_976564	1998	"Analysis of the various Medicaid proposals in the 104th Congress reveal different notions about the proper balance of power and responsibilities between the federal government and the states. These differences made it difficult to find a compromise, especially because they were unstated. To clarify these differences, this article compares the legislative proposals on two dimensions: (1) the overall structure of the federal-state relationship; and (2) the division of the major categories of functions between different levels of government. This framework can be used to analyze other legislative proposals in order to facilitate compromise."
10.2307_3110456	2000	"The goal of deliberative democracy is to revitalize civic culture, improve the nature of public discourse, and generate the political will necessary to take effective action on pressing problems. While there exists a fairly substantial amount of literature on the desired features of a deliberative democracy, there is little empirical research on the practical feasibility of convening a large-scale public deliberative process. This article describes a model of deliberative democracy which offers a practical opportunity for all citizens to participate, provides citizens extensive information about the nature of the policy problem, engages citizens in the same problem-solving context as elected officials, and uses rigorous methods. The practical feasibility of this model is assessed through four large-scale implementations, each addressing controversial and politically charged issues in cities ranging in population from 100,000 to 400,000. The conclusion from these trials is that it is possible to convene a large-scale public deliberative process that enables local governments to take effective action on previously intractable issues."
10.2307_3110014	2002	"The evolution of the New Public Management movement has increased pressure on state bureaucracies to become more responsive to citizens as clients. Without a doubt, this is an important advance in contemporary public administration, which finds itself struggling in an ultradynamic marketplace. However, together with such a welcome change in theory building and in practical culture reconstruction, modern societies still confront a growth in citizens' passivism; they tend to favor the easy chair of the customer over the sweat and turmoil of participatory involvement. This article has two primary goals: First to establish a theoretically and empirically grounded criticism of the current state of new managerialism, which obscures the significance of citizen action and participation through overstressing the (important) idea of responsiveness. Second, the article proposes some guidelines for the future development of the discipline. This progress is toward enhanced collaboration and partnership among governance and public administration agencies, citizens, and other social players such as the media, academic, and the private and third sectors. The article concludes that, despite the fact that citizens are formal ""owners"" of the state, ownership will remain a symbolic banner for the governance and public administration-citizen relationship in a representative democracy. The alternative interaction of movement between responsiveness and collaboration is more realistic for the years ahead."
10.2307_3110175	2002	"Citizens are more trusting of government since the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, but their civic behaviors are little changed. One reason is that they mostly have been asked for monetary gifts to fund disaster relief and to serve others through existing nonprofit organizations. Available theoretical and empirical analyses suggest the three factors of motivation, skills, and network connections contribute to increased civic engagement, which is defined by behaviors such as seeking to persuade others to join in mobilizing commitment and resources to address a collective problem. Responses to 9/11 have not addressed these three factors. Increased civic engagement strengthens democracy and can contribute to the development of public judgment, which is critical to sustaining support of efforts to thwart terrorism. Success in any effort to increase civic engagement requires different strategies and actions by public officials."
10.2307_3110232	2000	"What makes a good doctoral dissertation in public administration? Analysis of abstracts of 168 public administration doctoral dissertations included in Dissertation Abstracts 1998, on the basis of criteria first developed to analyze the PA dissertations of 1981, indicates material progress in the use of the doctoral dissertation as a research tool to educate students and to advance the field of public administration. The 1998 dissertations showed substantial improvements in quality over those in Dissertation Abstracts 1990, almost as much improvement as those studies showed over the projects of 1981. Compared to 1990, a substantially higher percentage of the 1998 dissertations set out to conduct basic research and to report on the findings. In addition, more doctoral students are using rigorous research designs that involve attention to causal relationships."
10.2307_4096574	2006	"This article provides a framework for assessing the democratic merits of collaborative public management in terms of seven normative ideals: inclusiveness, representativeness, impartiality, transparency, deliberativeness, lawfulness, and empowerment. The framework is used to analyze a random sample of 76 watershed partnerships in California and Washington State. The study reveals the exclusionary nature of some partnerships and suggests that critical stakeholders are missing from many partnerships. However, representation was generally balanced. National and statewide advocacy groups were absent from most of these place-based partnerships; public agencies were the primary source of nonlocal perspectives. Deliberativeness was relatively strong, indicated by the prevalence of educational and fact-finding strategies and participants' perceptions of respectful discussion and improved social capital. Half the partnerships had implemented new policies, and two-thirds of stakeholders believed their partnership had improved watershed conditions, indicating empowerment."
10.2307_3110184	2002	"The U.S. government is considering how it should reorganize for homeland security. Consequently, attention has focused on the new Office of Homeland Security (OHS). Much debate focuses on two issues related to OHS: (1) whether the OHS should be a separate executive agency; and (2) whether the OHS director has sufficient authority to direct changes in policies and resource allocation of other departments and agencies. The authors believe the emphasis on these areas of interest is misplaced as measures of the eventual success of the OHS. Rather than focusing on these political issues, this article outlines several questions about how the OHS might approach its complex mission and highlights some organizational and bureaucratic realities that are likely to survive the debate over placement of the OHS within the executive branch and the authorities of the OHS director. This article concludes with a discussion of some organizational tools that the OHS or any coordinating office will require to fulfill its mandate."
10.2307_977502	2001	"The relationship between bureaucracy and representative government has been a subject of concern to public administration since its inception. John Stuart Mill addressed this question in an 1861 essay, in which he explained his theory of government. Mill suggests a role for public administration that is not only legitimate, but also necessary for good government. His writings contain remarkable references to the concerns addressed in current theories of public administration. Mill worked to balance the spirit of popular government with governance by the most educated, skilled, and experienced of the nation, whether they were citizens, elected representatives, or administrative officials. This article examines Mill's theory and the contribution it makes to current public administration discussion."
10.2307_3110212	2002	"The following article discusses the current emphasis and attention being given to the future of emergency management, as well as theoretical constructs designed to guide research and help practitioners reduce disaster. It illustrates that while the disaster-resistant community, disaster-resilient community, and sustainable development/sustainable hazards mitigation concepts provide many unique advantages for disaster scholarship and management, they fail to sufficiently address the triggering agents, functional areas, actors, variables, and disciplines pertaining to calamitous events. In making this argument, the article asserts that any future paradigm and policy guide must be built on-yet go further than-comprehensive emergency management. The article also reviews and alters the concept of invulnerable development. Finally, the article presents ""comprehensive vulnerability management"" as a paradigm and suggests that it is better suited to guide scholarly and practitioner efforts to understand and reduce disasters than the aforementioned perspectives."
10.2307_3542607	2004	"The public sector has increasingly adopted the methods and values of the market to guide policy creation and management. Several public administration scholars in the United States have pointed out the problems with this, especially in relation to the impact on democracy and citizenship. Similarly, nonprofit organizations are adopting the approaches and values of the private market, which may harm democracy and citizenship because of its impact on nonprofit organizations' ability to create and maintain a strong civil society. This article reviews the major marketization trends occurring within the nonprofit sector-commercial revenue generation, contract competition, the influence of new and emerging donors, and social entrepreneurship-and surveys research on their potential impact on nonprofit organizations' contributions to civil society. The article ends with a discussion of the significance of marketization in the nonprofit sector for public administration scholars and public managers."
10.2307_4624611	2007	"Since 1998, budgeting reforms at the federal level have unraveled extensively. The budget process has become ad hoc, fragmented, and opaque, balance has been elusive, and the failure to prioritize has become endemic. One cause was the mismatch between the budget process in 1998, which was designed to eliminate deficits, and the emerging budgetary surpluses of that time. A second contributing factor was the desire to reduce taxes while expenditures were increasing as a result of wars and natural disasters. The consequences of this great unraveling include the failure to fund Medicare and Social Security adequately when the opportunity was presented, as well as threats to constitutional and democratic governance. Renewed reform may require greater transparency and a willingness to embarrass elected officials with iconic stories."
10.2307_3542576	2005	"This study examines data collected through a survey of authors who submitted manuscripts to Public Administration Review. Information on the authors' level of education, career path, longevity in the profession, race/ethnicity, gender, and ASPA affiliation is reviewed. Results show that PAR submission rates from both practitioners and individuals of color are far lower than submissions from academicians and white authors. In fact, minority submissions are lower than their presence on the faculties of NASPAA-affiliated public affairs programs would lead one to expect. In addition, manuscripts from white authors are more likely to be accepted than those from minority authors, even when controlling for academic rank. Manuscripts from women, however, were accepted at a higher rate than those from men."
10.2307_3542539	2004	"Public administrators need not only practical and intellectual permission to exercise leadership, but also a practical and intellectual understanding of what leadership actually is. Much has emerged in the public administration literature and practice about the need for and legitimacy of public managers exerting leadership in their work, complementing the traditional functions of organizational management and policy implementation. Calling on the experiences and ideas of practitioners, this article offers an empirical understanding-both descriptive and prescriptive-of what leadership actually looks like as it is practiced by public managers. It uncovers five leadership perspectives (ranging from leadership as equivalent to scientific management, to leadership being a whole-soul or spiritual endeavor) held by public managers and discusses their implications for public administration. It legitimizes the notion that leadership is a crucial part of public administration and offers public managers the chance to improve or enhance those legitimate leadership activities."
10.2307_3542623	2004	"The impact of new technology on public-sector service delivery and citizens' attitudes about government has long been debated by political observers. This article assesses the consequences of e-government for service delivery, democratic responsiveness, and public attitudes over the last three years. Research examines the content of e-government to investigate whether it is taking advantage of the interactive features of the World Wide Web to improve service delivery, democratic responsiveness, and public outreach. In addition, a national public opinion survey examines the ability of e-government to influence citizens' views about government and their confidence in the effectiveness of service delivery. Using both Web site content as well as public assessments, I argue that, in some respects, the e-government revolution has fallen short of its potential to transform service delivery and public trust in government. It does, however, have the possibility of enhancing democratic responsiveness and boosting beliefs that government is effective."
10.2307_3542567	2004	"This study investigates whether nonprofit organizational effectiveness is judged consistently by differing constituencies and whether changes in board effectiveness and overall organizational effectiveness (judged by differing constituencies) are the result of changes in the use of practices regarded as the ""right way"" to manage. The results show that different constituencies judged the effectiveness of nonprofit organizations differently, at both periods; that a change in the use of correct board practices over time, controlling for board effectiveness at time 1, was not related to board effectiveness at time 2; and that a change in the use of correct management practices, controlling for organizational effectiveness at time 1, was not related to organizational effectiveness at time 2, except for board members. Implications of the results are considered. Claims about best practices for nonprofit boards and organizations must be evaluated more critically. Finding the right fit among practices is more important than doing things the ""right way."""
10.2307_3542673	2006	"This article addresses perceived deficiencies in the study of representative bureaucracy by explaining and classifying the sources of passive representation's substantive effects. This classification is used to clarify existing empirical research and normative thinking on active representation. Doing so produces a more modest but more accurate interpretation of existing research findings and helps to indicate future research needs. It also reduces normative disagreement to a single source of substantive effects, namely bureaucratic partiality. Minority bureaucratic partiality is of dubious value for helping minorities, and bureaucratic partiality should generally be rejected. However, a passively representative bureaucracy increases in importance because of its other sources of substantive effects. This demonstrates the need to go beyond the passive-active distinction: It is more adequate and accurate to speak of representative bureaucracy and the sources of its substantive effects."
10.2307_977423	1999	"The spread of managed care is rapidly transforming the nation's health care system. Less well noted, however, is the way this transformation is also reshaping Medicaid-and other public health-care bureaucracies-across administration, internal operations, and policymaking areas. In this article, we examine how managed care has contributed to ""reinventing government"" in such bureaucracies, paying particular attention to shifts in organizational mission, competitive contracting, performance measurement, and government regulation. At the same time, we raise questions about the challenges of capacity and accountability that arise as public bureaucracies both participate in and respond to the managed care revolution."
10.2307_3109948	1999	"City management professionals have identified four changes that have occurred over the past 10 years in their roles, responsibilities, and values. First, community building has become part of the city management professional's role and responsibility. Second, managers are increasingly expected to facilitate participation and representation, and to develop partnerships. Third, there is less adherence to the council-manager plan as the ""one best form "" of government. And last, the manager's internal administrative role has become more process oriented. At a time when the value of government is being questioned, these changes provide direction for strengthening the local government professional's legitimacy in the eyes of citizens."
10.2307_27697907	2009	"While the financial crisis of 2008 ultimately affected the range of U.S. financial institutions, it began with practices in home ownership finance. The Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLBank) System was the first instrumentality created by the U.S. government, in 1932, to sustain affordable home ownership finance. In this article, the authors ask what role, if any, the FHLBanks played in the subprime lending and securitization practices that precipitated the current crisis. The authors analyze publicly available FHLBank financial data in terms of a framework focused on the System's assets: advances; mortgage loans acquired from members; and investments, particularly in mortgage-backed-securities. They conclude that the FHLBanks did not contribute significantly to problematic practices. Nonetheless, they recommend consideration of three reforms to the FHLBanks to ensure a return to effective regulation and responsible, affordable home ownership finance."
10.2307_976889	1998	"The politics-administration dichotomy model has provided norms for officials and the starting point for research on the behavior of elected officials and administrators, particularly in local government. Although routinely rejected on empirical grounds, it is commonly viewed as the traditional statement of how officials should relate that can be traced to the ""founders"" of the field in the United States and the formulators of the council-manager form of government. Reexamination of the literature and the history of the council-manager form of government demonstrates, however, that the model is not present in early writings in public administration and did not appear until the twenties. Supported by other aspects of ""orthodox"" public administration, the dichotomy model took hold during the thirties and in local government hung on into the sixties. It should be viewed as an aberration that departed from the ideas that preceded and followed it rather than defended and reinterpreted to make it relevant to current practice. Recognizing the interdependent relationship between elected officials and administrators-as did the framers of the council-manager form-leads to a model of complementarity rather than dichotomy."
10.2307_977550	1998	"The purpose of this study is to understand what type of public welfare service constitutes quality service from the consumer's perspective. Welfare recipients were interviewed to determine the degree of consumer (dis)satisfaction with current welfare programs. Seven focus groups were conducted to assess services and propose improvements. Although there are limitations with this approach, it does provide a comprehensive overview of consumer opinions to help develop valid consumer satisfaction measures and define quality service. Participants were found to be most dissatisfied with the treatment they received when seeking service from the public welfare system. They reported uncaring and insensitive responses, demeaning and disrespectful treatment, and they questioned the competence of personnel. Several organizational practices were identified that waste time, discourage recipient improvement, and, in total, work against efforts to become self-sufficient. A consumer-focused public welfare system that empowers workers to be accountable to consumers is proposed."
10.2307_40468975	2009	"Congestion costs are emerging as one of the most important challenges faced by metropolitan planners and transport authorities in developed economies. In the United States, these costs were as high as $78 billion in 2005 and are growing as a result of rapid increases in travel delays. In order to solve the current and severe levels of congestion, the U.S. Department of Transportation has recently started a program to initiate congestion pricing in five metropolitan areas. In this context, it is important to identify factors that influence successful implementation, as well as the problems or difficulties associated with charging projects. The authors review, synthesize, and analyze worldwide experience with urban road charging in order to extract lessons for policy makers who are considering the implementation of congestion pricing projects and for those who are interested in the introduction of traffic management tools to regulate entrance to city centers."
10.2307_3542609	2004	"Across the United States and around the world, businesses have joined voluntary governmental and nongovernmental environmental regulations. Such codes often require firms to establish internal environmental management systems to improve their environmental performance and regulatory compliance. Meanwhile, governments have been offering incentives to businesses that self-police their regulatory compliance and promptly report and correct violations. This article examines how governmental regulatory enforcement can influence firms' compliance with mandatory and voluntary regulations. Cooperative regulatory enforcement-in which firms self-police their environmental operations and governments provide regulatory relief for voluntarily disclosed violations-yields optimal win-win outcomes, but only when both sides cooperate. If firms are likely to evade compliance, governments are better off adopting a deterrence approach. If governments insist on rigidly interpreting and enforcing laws, firms may have incentives to evade regulations and not voluntary codes. Cooperation is possible through credible signals between firms and government."
10.2307_3843897	2006	"The torture and abuse of detainees at Abu Ghraib prison and at other sites in Iraq, Afghanistan, and Cuba raise disturbing questions that have few, if any, easy answers. Were these intentionally evil acts committed by a few bad apples who took advantage of the power they wielded over the detainees? Or were they cases of administrative evil in which the obvious evil of torture and abuse was masked from the perpetrators, including those who performed subsidiary and supportive functions? The more fundamental question is, are torture and abuse always wrong? How close did the United States come to moral inversion in this case? Judith Shklar's concept of ""putting cruelty first"" aids our understanding of this case and points toward a trajectory that could help prevent future moral inversions and administrative evil."
10.2307_3110227	2000	"This article reviews the body of empirical research on work-related consequences of human diversity and presents an agenda for future investigations. Ideally, a synthesis of research findings to inform managing-for-diversity efforts should enable managers to interpret events in their own administrative contexts. Our assessment of the diversity literature suggests that managers are using largely untested assumptions as a basis for diversity policies, strategies, and actions. We call for greater contribution from public administration scholars to the body of research focusing on how human diversity can best be managed to produce positive results for individuals and their work organizations."
10.2307_4624596	2007	"Public-private partnerships are enjoying a global resurgence in popularity, but there is still much confusion around notions of partnership, what can be learned from our history with partnerships, and what is new about the partnership forms that are in vogue today. Looking at one particular family of public-private partnerships, the long-term infrastructure contract, this article argues that evaluations thus far point to contradictory results regarding their effectiveness. Despite their continuing popularity with governments, greater care is needed to strengthen future evaluations and conduct such assessments away from the policy cheerleaders."
10.2307_3542591	2004	"In the post September 11 era, one truism in the ongoing public policy debate surrounding technology and privacy is that there is no easy solution to the increasing presence of technology in our lives. There are, however, several long-standing guiding principles. We must be wary of extending political authority to protect privacy without careful contemplation of the consequences. While it may appear that the idea of balancing technology and privacy is novel, the tension between them is informed by a broader theoretical framework that is inherent to democracy. Understanding this broader theoretical framework is helpful in identifying ways to advance the debate toward policy solutions rather than continuing a dogmatic discussion that juxtaposes technological innovation with the loss of privacy. The purpose of this discussion is not to settle the public policy debate. Instead, the aim is to consider how long-standing constitutional doctrine and the theoretical framework of democracy can lend insight into the current debate surrounding privacy and technology."
10.2307_3542536	2004	"This article identifies and describes the development of three parallel streams of literature about network theory and research: social network analysis, policy change and political science networks, and public management networks. Noting that these traditions have sometimes been inattentive to each other's work, the authors illustrate the similarities and differences in the underlying theoretical assumptions, types of research questions addressed, and research methods typically employed by the three traditions. The authors draw especially on the social network analysis (sociological) tradition to provide theoretical and research insights for those who focus primarily on public management networks. The article concludes with recommendations for advancing current scholarship on public management networks."
10.2307_977060	1997	"General managers are expected to strive for organizational efficiency and effectiveness. Depending on their emphasis on efficiency and effectiveness, they produce four basic approaches to public sector general management: the directive approach, the reactive approach, the generative approach, and the adaptive approach. This paper explores the generative approach, in particular its use of public deliberation as an alternative way to establish public policy and set bureau direction. Two case studies help distill the basic elements of public deliberation. The first case documents the use of public deliberation in significantly reducing a school district budget. The second case illustrates how public deliberation aided in crafting state educational policy. Although it is risky and expensive, public deliberation in these two cases illustrates how opening up policy-making to stakeholder participation can be highly successful. The paper concludes with implications for public management theory and practice."
10.2307_3110098	2003	"Public radio in the United States receives both direct and indirect government funding. Direct subsidies come in the form of lump-sum and matching grants, while indirect subsidies proceed from tax revenues forgone on tax-deductible private donations. Each of these sources of government money affects charitable giving to public radio. This article estimates both of these effects, using data on 91 public radio stations in the United States during 1995. Data analysis shows that public funding to stations has a positive impact on private giving, but this impact rapidly decreases as the level of government subsidies increases. The analysis also indicates that increases in state tax rates correspond with significantly higher donation levels. This article explores the implications of these and other findings for policy makers, public administrators, and nonprofit managers."
10.2307_25145702	2008	"The Government Accountability Office believes the answer to the U.S. Defense Department's persistent management problems is to be found in the creation of a new position, chief management officer, to oversee defense business transformation. The recommendation for this position is reviewed and used to raise questions and spur inquiry in the areas of evidence-based reform, the relationship between policy and administration, auditor overreach, and sustaining reforms through transition. The latter portion is expanded in this time of transition, and recommendations are made to the new administration to develop a management agenda, to the defense career executives to facilitate the transition, and to the next comptroller general to consider how the Government Accountability Office's varied roles produce outputs that align with the desired outcomes in both the policy and administration domains."
10.2307_27697910	2009	"The credit rating agencies (CRAs) were an important component of the subprime mess. This article describes what the CRAs are, what they do, what roles they play, and how they fit into the regulatory system. It outlines the types of mortgage securities that the CRAs rate and outlines the evolution of the subprime mess. It then assesses three prime suspects in the CRAs' problems: incentives, ignorance, and stress. The author concludes that all three factors were important, that public officials were slow to react, and that additional safeguards have been put into place to prevent such problems in the future."
10.2307_3542549	2005	"As a form of interpretive research, narrative inquiry contributes to the pursuit of high-quality public administration scholarship, along with other forms of explanatory research that have dominated the field. In this article we discuss the unique features of narrative inquiry, review how this research orientation has been used in public administration, and use our experience with a national, multimodal, multiyear research project on social-change leadership in the United States to identify and illustrate the contributions of narrative inquiry to address two key issues in the field: the concern with good research and the aspiration to cultivate a meaningful connection between researchers and practitioners in the field."
10.2307_3110180	2002	"The events of September 11, 2001, have led us to rethink the importance of public service and public-sector employees' commitment. In previous research, we argued that employee commitment is a construct comprising three dimensions: commitment to the boss, to the work group, and to the organization. However, this characterization cannot explain the behavior of public employees on September 11. For this article, we argue that employee commitment is a construct that comprises four dimensions: With the help of identity theory, there is reason to include commitment to a job as part of the commitment construct. Based on an analysis of an existing data set, we find that firefighters identified themselves as committed to their job, which they viewed as an honorable profession that performs a valuable service to the community."
10.2307_4624664	2007	"Tasked with the responsibility of finding new and innovative ways of improving administrative management, Arthur W. Macmahon, James W. Fesler, and Herbert Emmerich creatively enriched the final report of the President's Committee on Administrative Management with their analyses. But that is not the only reason for celebrating this work today. These documents still merit attention because they are historical landmarks that draw attention to the continuing tensions between Congress and the president over which branch of government should have control over executive branch agencies. This study makes the case for a strong executive in a manner that has rarely been as clearly and forcefully stated as it was in 1937. It reminds the field that policy decisions remain nothing but aspirations until they are turned into action. Reading this study is like reading any classic treatise on government-it generates thought."
10.2307_977463	2000	"The relationship between government social spending and private donations to the nonprofit sector is an issue that is relevant to both public administrators and nonprofit managers. Does government funding displace philanthropy, or encourage it? This article introduces the debate into the public administration literature. First, I survey and interpret the empirical work performed to date in this area by economists. Second, I retest this question across four nonprofit subsectors using data on both federal and state/local spending. My survey of the literature shows mixed results, although a broad pattern indicates that ""crowding out"" tends to dominate, particularly in the areas of social service provision and health. My empirical results are consistent with these findings, although they must be interpreted cautiously from a policy perspective: While results are statistically significant, the degree of crowding out is generally small. On the other hand, the claim that government funding stimulates giving seems to lack both statistical and policy significance."
10.2307_977317	1997	"Building on the current interest in constitutional issues in our field and a marked shift in power toward state governments, the present article argues that the highly decentralized federalism in Canada can teach Americans some important lessons on both the advantages of decentralized power and the dangers of its excesses. Specifically, the article examines the text and the early history of the British North America Act of 1867 which created the Dominion of Canada, the development and decline of the curious administrative office of lieutenant governor in the Canadian provinces, and the recent ""federalization"" of individual rights in Canada under the aegis of the country's aggressive Supreme Court."
10.2307_976654	1997	"Municipal service delivery decisions often generate considerable controversy and political turmoil. However, one aspect of political turmoil-turnover among leaders in city government-can also affect service delivery choices. Clingermayer and Feiock find that, in a number of local policy areas, turnover among mayors increases the probability of delivering services externally (i. e., through a private contractor, a nonprofit organization, or a different governmental unit). However, turnover among administrators reduces the likelihood of external service delivery for a number of services."
10.2307_977315	1997	"This article examines administrative reform in the comparative context of the United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand and the United States. A reform continuum is presented, which moves from the nonstrategic incremental reforms of the United States to the comprehensive and fundamental reforms adopted in New Zealand. The role of politics and political leadership is linked to the various models of reform. More comprehensive and strategic efforts require great initial political leadership and will, but incremental efforts require more continuous political involvement. In the countries examined, using fundamental reform to create a simplified base from which to launch other initiatives appears to be a key component of success."
10.2307_4624569	2007	"The authors observe that the attacks on the new public management often show a lack of familiarity with its theoretical base, ignore that it is a recognized management tool, and imagine dramaturgy when none exists."
10.2307_3110231	2000	"Undisciplined mongrels are faculty from public administration programs who publish in a wide variety of journals. We expected that undisciplined mongrels would have more successful publishing records than their counterparts-""disciplined purists"" who publish exclusively in public administration journals. This expectation is supported through an analysis of journal publications by a panel of 91 junior faculty members. We also expected that the methods that are currently used to rank public administration programs would discard a massive body of publication activity by public administration faculty. This expectation is also soundly supported. Findings indicate that from 1990 through 1997, a scant 18 percent of the articles published by the faculty panel were published in the highly selective set of 11 journals that are currently used to rank public administration programs."
10.2307_27697918	2009	"This paper examines the federal government's success in implementing and providing high-quality service through e-government, something that has received very little attention. We define quality from the perspective of the end users of federal agency Web sites, as measured through customer survey data. Using data from the American Customer Satisfaction Index, we compare the performance of federal agency Web sites across a range of relevant variables with a private sector equivalent, e-business Web sites. Our findings suggest that federal e-government Web sites are not yet, in the aggregate, providing the same level of quality as their e-business counterparts. We also find significant variability among federal agencies. We discuss the implications of these findings for e-government performance measurement, performance benchmarking, and the market-centered theories of administrative reform that are driving e-government and similar transformations of government practice."
10.2307_4096568	2006	"Collaborative public management research is flourishing. A great deal of attention is being paid to the process and impact of collaboration in the public sector, and the results are promising. This article reviews the literature on collaborative public management by synthesizing what we know from recent research and what we've known for quite some time. It addresses the prevalence of collaboration (both recently and historically), the components of emerging collaborative structures, the types of skills that are unique to collaborative management, and the effects of collaboration. Collaborative public management research offers a set of findings that contribute to an emerging knowledge base that supplements established public management theory."
10.2307_977466	2000	"Contemporary political rhetoric and management reforms have highlighted accountability issues for government. A troubling feature associated with these management reforms is a gap between the expectations of management reform and the reality of the American culture of accountability. This culture gap is likely to be particularly evident in organizations that are structured around principles of command and control, such as the military. This article explores the cross pressures individuals face when they are urged to demonstrate initiative and obedience to command while operating within a web of accountability relationships that represent several different behavioral standards against which their performance can be judged. To conduct this research, the authors interviewed members of the Accident Investigation Board appointed by Major General Ryan, Commander of the United States Air Force Europe (USAFE), to investigate the April 1996 crash in Croatia of the military transport plane carrying United States Secretary of Commerce Ron Brown and his party of distinguished visitors. These personal interviews were supplemented with the official reports of the Accident Investigation Board and transcripts of testimony before the Board. Based on these data, we analyze the accountability dynamics involving the various military officials associated with the ""mishap flight."" We find that while institutional rhetoric and managerial conditions encouraged entrepreneurial behavior and initiative, the administrative reality still emphasized a risk-averse, rules-oriented approach to accountability when things went wrong."
10.2307_977585	2003	"Theories of democratic government traditionally have relied on a model of organization in which officials act impartially, accept clear lines of accountability and supervision, and define their day-to-day activities through rules, procedures, and confined discretion. In the past 10 years, however, a serious challenge to this ideal has been mounted by critics and reformers who favor market, network, or ""mixed-economy"" models. We assess the extent to which these new models have influenced the work orientations of frontline staff using three alternative service types-corporate, market, and network-to that proposed by the traditional, procedural model of public bureaucracy. Using surveys of frontline officials in four countries where the revolution in ideas has been accompanied by a revolution in methods for organizing government services, we measure the degree to which the new models are operating as service-delivery norms. A new corporate-market hybrid (called ""enterprise governance"") and a new network type have become significant models for the organization of frontline work in public programs."
10.2307_27697864	2009	"The speed and scale of urbanization provide serious challenges for governments all over the world with regard to the realization, maintenance, and operation of public urban infrastructures. These infrastructures are needed to keep up with living standards and to create conditions for sustainable development. The lack of public funds and the inefficiencies of public service provision have given rise to initiatives to stimulate private parties to invest their resources in public urban infrastructures. However, private sector participation creates a whole range of new challenges. The potential benefits are countered by concerns about the compatibility of the private sector's focus on short-term return on investment with the long-term perspective needed to realize sustainability targets. On the basis of a review of literature on experiences with private sector participation in urban infrastructure projects, this article identifies governance practices that help or hinder the reconciliation of private sector participation in urban infrastructure projects with the objective to increase the sustainability of the urban environment."
10.2307_27697904	2009	"Drawing on his experience in a variety of positions over 40 years, the author details a wide range of variables that are involved in implementing presidential policy, including (1) the nature, origin, and validity of the presidential policy agendas and how they are communicated; (2) the background, experience, and relationships of the appointee; (3) the internal agency context; and (4) the larger political and social context. The author concludes that the large number of variables makes it very difficult??if not impossible??to produce a coherent, useful set of guidelines for appointees that will have utility across the board. Rather, implementation often requires individually nuanced responses. At the same time, the author concludes that the documented experiences of appointees in similar circumstances can serve as useful reference points for the future."
10.2307_4624560	2007	"Network governance can enhance democratic practice by furnishing new routes for actors to deliberate, make, and execute public policy. But it is hindered by a lack of political oversight, limited democratic competence of new organizational forms, and informality of operation. Little research has been conducted on the democratic performance of governance networks, and the methodology is poorly developed. Quality-of-democracy studies of national governmental and political systems offer a starting point. Their criteria-based method is useful in accessing the democratic ""hardware"" of formal entities, such as partnerships and hybrids, but it does not enable data to be gathered on democratic ""software""-the informal day-to-day practices of actors in networks. Interpretive approaches offer a way forward. Narrative analysis, qualitative interviews using a criteria-based instrument, and Q-methodology provide routes into democratic software. They enable the researcher to move beyond the analysis of institutional nodes and to understand the democratic performance of the wider governance network."
10.2307_40469020	2009	"After reading Professor Ali Farazmand's essay ""Building Administrative Capacity in the Age of Rapid Globalization: A Modest Prescription for the Twenty-First Century,"" one is reminded that the list of capacities we need to develop is long, the tasks are diverse, and the challenges are tremendous. By offering a ""modest"" prescription, Farazmand departs emphatically from recent attempts to rewrite administrative capacity by downgrading it and outsourcing it to the market or by making it imitate corporate structures and techniques. Such exercises of yesteryear are correctly being excoriated now, but it would be well to remember that this failed model was inspired and facilitated by the stagnation and many perversities of the state-centered model that it replaced. As we stand at the cusp of a new generation of public administration reforms, we are reminded by Professor Farazmand's exposition that we no longer have any widely accepted and integrative theories left to guide our practice of reform, and that a search must begin to look at past evidence with a critical eye toward developing practical and theoretical insights to advance the public administration agenda."
10.2307_3542541	2004	"This article examines the ability of service networks to improve substance abuse treatment access and service delivery to adult, substance-abusing female offenders. In fiscal year 1995, the Center for Substance Abuse Treatment (part of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services's Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration) funded four demonstration projects to establish Criminal Justice Treatment Networks to improve substance abuse treatment access and service delivery to adult female offenders while they were involved in the criminal justice system. This study seeks to determine whether the networks promoted systemic change in the community agencies and organizations where they are housed. This article is based on a series of annual site visits, reports, and regular communication with network staff and local evaluators. The findings indicate that networks can improve service delivery in criminal justice and substance abuse treatment systems."
10.2307_27697855	2009	"Tensions remain in adapting to the ""new normalcy""?? that is, the balance between national security and other democratic and administrative priorities in the aftermath of 9/11. Perhaps no one appreciates this balance more than Admiral James Loy. Immediately following the September 11 attacks, he left his post as commandant of the U.S. Coast Guard to accept the challenge of standing up the Transportation Security Administration. Next, Loy tackled the role of deputy secretary of the Department of Homeland Security. Loy's efforts to articulate a set of core organizational values in three organizational contexts offer lessons for public managers who seek to enhance internal cohesion. Strong cultural cohesion is expected to support organizational transformation and, ultimately, performance. Loy's example puts that connection to the test."
10.2307_4624562	2007	"This article addresses the efforts of local governments to involve citizens in administrative processes. In particular, we explore the following questions: What social and political groups in the community promote citizen involvement? Which groups awre likely to succeed? What barriers obstruct citizen involvement efforts? Do administrative attitudes make a difference in undertaking citizen involvement? Using survey data, this study tests a framework that assumes the decision to involve citizens in administrative processes reflects administrative responsiveness to salient community stakeholders, normative values associated with citizen involvement, and administrative practicality. The statistical results confirm the bureaucratic responsiveness framework and point to future directions for citizen involvement research and practice."
10.2307_4624581	2007	"Despite the outward appearance of depoliticization, the civil service in China today is actually being repoliticized. This paper compares the 1993 Provisional Regulations on State Civil Servants with the Civil Service Law approved by the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress of the People's Republic of China (PRC) in April 2005. The 2005 reform formalized what had been a historical pattern-the Communist Party holds tight control over leadership change and management at various levels. The Civil Service Law has turned the Communist Party of China into a political institution that has become the source of both civil service empowerment and control. Although civil service reform in China differs markedly from approaches adopted elsewhere, China is clearly expanding its political control to ensure greater leverage over the bureaucracy. In this regard, China is in line with the global trend. That said, civil service reform in China has focused on structural elements and formal reorganizations, whereas most industrialized democracies have engaged in a dialectic between individualist and corporate responses to managerial questions. An understanding of the Chinese ability to adopt reforms-while strengthening its traditional hold-provides key perspectives not only on the world's largest nation and a rapidly emerging force in global political and economic relationships but also on the Chinese experience with important public sector reforms that have occurred in many other countries over recent decades."
10.2307_3542642	2005	"In a 1992 issue of this journal, 12 scholars proposed an ambitious research agenda for the study of the American county. By all accounts, this agenda was both a catalyst and a guide for those interested in the nature, role, functions, operations, and practical relevance of county governments to either continue their research or to launch new studies in this underresearched area. The present article provides a detailed inventory of the research that has been conducted in the eight areas identified in the 1992 agenda. Specifically, which research questions have or have not been addressed satisfactorily? Such an exercise is a logical prerequisite for charting a path for future research on counties; it represents a synthesis of scholarly needs for theory building, hypothesis testing, and cumulative research and the dynamic and enduring knowledge-base needs of county practitioners and elected officials."
10.2307_3110280	2002	"This article examines the classical, or real, ombudsman. Unlike quasi ombudsmen, which are bureaucratic control mechanisms subject to executive leaders or agency administrators, real ombudsmen are operationally independent officials of the legislative branch. In 1969, the state of Hawaii was the first to create a real ombudsman. Although Iowa, Nebraska, Alaska, and Arizona have since followed Hawaii's lead, no intensive, long-term study of American ombudsmen has yet been published. This article examines the ombudsman as a monitor of Hawaii's bureaucracies and considers the extent to which the office has become institutionalized over the past 30 years. Nearly 75,000 citizens have had their complaints investigated by the ombudsman, and more than one-fifth of them were rectified, that is, the agency reversed its original action. This study indicates that the classical ombudsman can become institutionalized in the United States. The findings have policy implications as jurisdictions at the federal, state, and local levels consider the creation of ombudsmen or quasi ombudsmen."
10.2307_25145581	2008	"Government capacity helps explain variance in public sector organizations' performance, and measuring capacity helps identify deficiencies that may be addressed in order to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of these organizations. This study examines the capacity of regional economic development districts to leverage federal grant funds in the counties they serve, controlling for additional sources of potential capacity and demand for federal grants. A decade of data reflecting federal grant funding to counties in one state was compiled from the Federal Awards Data System and analyzed using pooled cross-sectional time-series analysis with panel-corrected standard errors. The results indicate that regional economic development districts demonstrate varied but significant capacity to leverage federal grant funds in the counties they serve. The results suggest that similarity in the purpose and structure of regional economic development districts within a state are not enough; we need to better understand the resources within the organization and the mission that determines how those resources are applied."
10.2307_977065	1997	"What impact will the current attempts to reinvent government have? Is this effort doomed-like the planning, programming, budgeting system and zero-based budgeting-to be replaced before it has achieved its promise, or will it accomplish the desired change? An examination of the underlying structures that give rise to action suggests that myriad ""structural conflicts"" point to continued oscillation between goals and ultimately to disappointing results. Another type of structure, however, is designed to lead toward resolution, rather than oscillation. Through the use of appropriate strategies, managers may be able to establish a more effective structure and achieve the change they seek."
10.2307_4624542	2007	"This study examines the impact of social support on work-family conflict and work-family enhancement. Data from 341 employees of public organizations showed that social support, especially from work sources, reduced the level of work interference with family, one direction of work-family conflict. In addition, all nonfamily sources of social support related positively to work enhancement of family, and all sources of social support, except that received from a supervisor, positively correlated with family enhancement of work. The strengths, limitations, and implications of the study are discussed, and areas for future research are recommended."
10.2307_25145676	2008	"This article develops and tests a comprehensive framework explaining the decision to measure performance, specifically the decision of local governments to conduct citizen surveys. It is structured around a fundamental distinction between subjective performance measures obtained for use in decision making and those that are produced solely for their symbolic value. The author suggests that the field of public administration may be taking a simplified view concerning the promotion and adoption of citizen surveys, overlooking important aspects of the decision-making process of performance-oriented public managers and neglecting the impact of politics and symbols. Political rationality may undercut managerial rationality in the decision to adopt citizen surveys, and symbolic adoption may be the underlying cause of low levels of information use. This study identifies policies to increase adoption of citizen surveys but cautions that simply promoting the adoption of surveys as inherently good may be a naive and wasteful course of action. Practitioners who have already made the decision to measure subjective performance through citizen surveys, or are facing such a decision, can find in this analysis a structure to assess past decisions or guide future decisions."
10.2307_27697903	2009	"With polarization in Congress persistent, with staggering issues and international threats facing the nation, and with fiscal stress an enduring fact of life, presidents have for decades turned to the tools of the administrative presidency to advance and implement their policy agendas. As the Barack Obama administration completed its first six months in office amid great challenges and hopes, the president was no exception in counting on his appointees to wield the tools of the administrative presidency to advance his protean policy agenda for America. This essay offers 10 research-based lessons for new appointees charged with advancing presidential agendas administratively to ponder as they do so."
10.2307_40469074	2009	"Since Chinas 1994 fiscal reform, increasing concerns have been voiced about fiscal disparities across the country. Can local governments fairly and effectively fulfill basic public services such as primary education, public health, and social welfare? This essay traces the evolution of intergovernmental relations in China since 1978. The fluctuation of provincial level fiscal distribution over time and the underlying factors behind fiscal inequality, as compared to a decentralized American revenue system, are analyzed. The author, Zhirong ferry Zhao of the University of Minnesota, argues for additional research on alternative measures of local fiscal capacity."
10.2307_3110005	2001	"The authors use data on municipal bond sales in Oregon from 1994 to 1997 to explore whether population (as a proxy for financial-management capacity) and sale type (competitive or negotiated sale) influence interest rates. They find that smaller jurisdictions pay an interest cost penalty in the municipal bond market, and that competitive sales result in significantly lower interest rates compared to negotiated sales. The authors suggest that measures to enhance the financial-management capacity of small governments are warranted and that state laws requiring justification for negotiated sales are appropriate."
10.2307_3542518	2005	"This article examines the history of the Capitol Mall from its inception in 1791 to recent legislation prohibiting further development along the Mall's primary axes. This movement to restrict further development of the Mall's massive open spaces derives from concerns that fail to fully articulate the iconographic significance these spaces represent. Drawing from the Mall's 200-year history of master planning, this article examines the Mall's palimpsestic and emergent qualities and presents planning criteria that make it possible to build future commemorative works within the Mall's primary open spaces while retaining the overall integrity of its grandeur."
10.2307_3542674	2006	"This article uses Kaufman's theory of competing bureaucratic values as a foundation for studying bureaucratic values in a developing society. It discusses civil service reform within a socio-bureaucratic-political exchange, as well as characteristics associated with bureaucratic values and ethnic federalism. The inherent conflicts between a civil service grounded in the values of bureaucratic neutrality, representativeness, or executive leadership and practices within a government structured on the basis of ethnicity are explored. Factors related to Ethiopia's postconflict status, which further complicate the governance environment, are identified, and building blocks for postconflict governance are suggested."
10.2307_3542550	2005	"This study examines three central questions: Do women state agency heads establish priorities that advance women's interests more frequently than men agency heads? Among state agency heads with women-related top priorities, are there systematic differences between women and men in the influences on their priority choices? Do the organizational and political contexts in which agency leaders work explain variation in policy priorities? Analysis of data from a national survey of women and men department heads reveals that working in a redistributive agency affects whether a leader pursues a women-centered policy agenda, regardless of the leader's gender, other personal characteristics, or reported influences on priority choice. The authors conclude that the way representative bureaucracy actually plays out can be more fully understood if the tenets of social science theory on gendered institutions are incorporated into analyses of how representative bureaucracy works."
10.2307_3110279	2002	"Between 1884 and 1896, Herbert Baxter Adams, James Bryce, Richard Ely, Albert Shaw, and Woodrow Wilson, participated in one of the first attempts to build a curriculum specifically aimed at educating American public servants. Their approach to curriculum development did not concentrate on government structure or management skills, but on politics, economics, history, law, and ethics. Their efforts reflected a need to justify local administration, public service, and active government in legal, moral, historical, philosophical, and practical terms. More than 100 years later, their efforts seem both awkwardly archaic and curiously relevant."
10.2307_25145675	2008	"This article examines the George W. Bush administration's efforts to apply New Public Management reforms to the Department of Homeland Security. The primary focus is the administration's attempt to implement the law. The managerial strategy that Department of Homeland Security and Office of Personnel Management executives used to carry out the law in the massive new department receives attention, with a special focus on the approach used in dealing with the federal courts. The article suggests five general lessons concerning civil service deregulation at the federal level. The case reaffirms the notion that successful administrative reform requires a keen appreciation for the politics that shape it."
10.2307_25145583	2008	"Rail safety has emerged as a significant issue in the past two years as a result of two major factors: a statistical lack of improvement in rail safety in the past decade, and a catalytic event in the form of a major derailment involving loss of life at Graniteville, South Carolina, in January 2005. The convergence of long-term leveling of rail safety indicators and the shock of a major rail accident prompted the Senate Appropriations Committee to ask the Government Accountability Office to assess the oversight role of the Federal Railroad Administration, the modal agency of the U.S. Department of Transportation charged with overseeing rail safety. The report is a reminder of the continuing importance of regulatory activities and the general movement in federal management toward greater use of data and performance measures since the Government Performance and Results Act of 1993."
10.2307_25145621	2008	"George Tenet served as director of the Central Intelligence Agency from 1997 to 2004, an intense period spanning the administrations of Bill Clinton and George W. Bush and covering the terrorist attacks of September 11 and the U.S. invasion of Iraq. Few other central intelligence directors have served for so long, so energetically, or amid so much controversy. This profile examines the steep trajectory of Tenet's career, his response to the al-Qaeda threat, the role he played during the invasion of Iraq, and the eventual reorganization of the nation's intelligence community. It describes a public servant caught between the warring factions of the White House decision-making process, his own agency's intelligence priorities, and, ultimately, his own conscience."
10.2307_977505	2001	"Whether a function should be performed within or outside government is a very broad issue that relates to personal values and views concerning the relationship between individual and state, as well as a complex set of management issues. Without trying to answer those questions here, this article begins from the premise that a particular function has been judged by the political process to be the responsibility of government. The article seeks to develop an approach for government managers to use when deciding whether to perform the function directly in-house or to perform the function indirectly through the use of a non-governmental organization. The first part of this article begins by delineating distinguishing characteristics of government, nonprofit, and private organizations, and then assesses the degree to which those characteristics impede or facilitate the performance of public functions. The article then develops a framework and a method for making privatization decisions. The decision to privatize requires strategic thinking; this article provides an example of how a strategic framework might be applied by analyzing the issues that would be faced in privatizing a key element of New York City's homeless program."
10.2307_977493	2003	"This article reviews the literature on workplace spirituality, pointing out emergent theories and examining the links between this phenomenon and organizational dynamics. It also examines workplace spirituality in a historical context and compares it to religious beliefs and to established ethical theories and moral principles. The article also looks at organizations in which an emphasis on spiritual values has had an impact on work productivity. While some corporations have institutionalized spirituality, public agencies are reluctant to follow suit for fear of violating the principle of church-state separation. Finally, the article suggests ways that managers and administrators in both the public and the private sector can use workplace spirituality to increase performance and develop ethical organizations."
10.2307_3542565	2004	"This article examines the underlying assumptions and main findings of four streams of research on bureaucratic postures. It explores the utility of each school of thought for understanding how perspectives on bureaucratic postures are associated with the advancement of the public interest and bureaucratic performance. A main conclusion is that, although limited in scope of application, each stream has merit. Nonetheless, the existing research is too narrow: The field needs to consider a more complex model of bureaucratic behavior that draws from these four fields to offer a framework that is widely applicable to the range of motives for work found in the public bureaucracy and the variety of behaviors that individuals exhibit. Some attributes that may characterize such a model are sketched out."
10.2307_25145585	2008	"The privatization experience of U.S. municipalities shows declining use of complete contracts and a dramatic rise in mixed public-private delivery (joint contracting) of city services. The analysis here shows that city managers have recognized the need to move beyond a simple dichotomy between market delivery and public planning to an approach that balances concerns with efficiency, market management, and citizen satisfaction. The New Public Management stresses the importance of competition and efficiency, transaction costs economics emphasizes the challenges of contract management, and New Public Service assigns primary concern to citizen engagement. Nonetheless, city managers see the need to balance all three. The analysis shows the evolution of a middle position where city managers integrate markets with public delivery and give greater attention to citizen satisfaction in the service delivery process."
10.2307_3542482	2005	"This article investigates the discipline of public administration as it is manifested in symposium articles published during the period 1985-99. What was the field trying to accomplish? The method of investigation is narrative analysis. Using specific discourse markers (method, substantive contents, and authorial intentions), the authors found a wide variety of purposes and projects in the symposia investigated. The condition of public administration, they conclude, is distinguished by a radical pluralism-a striking absence of any singular conception of public administration scholarship."
10.2307_977467	2000	"Many scholars and practitioners of public administration converge on the belief that some individuals are predisposed to perform public service. James L. Perry (1996) recently clarified the public service motivation (PSM) construct and proposed a measurement scale. The present study builds on and extends this important stream of research by examining how individuals view the motives associated with public service. Specifically, we use an intensive research technique called Q-methodology to examine the motives of 69 individuals. We identify four distinct conceptions of PSM: individuals holding these conceptions are referred to as samaritans, communitarians, patriots, and humanitarians. The practical and theoretical implications of these findings are discussed."
10.2307_27697882	2009	"This paper attempts, for the first time, to assess the relationships between budget transparency, fiscal situation, and political turnout using a comparative international approach. With this aim, the authors build a comprehensive index of budget transparency encompassing 40 budget features based on international standards for a sample of 41 countries. They find a positive relationship between national government fiscal balance and budget transparency: The more information the budget discloses, the less the politicians can use fiscal deficits to achieve opportunistic goals. The univariate analysis shows a positive relationship between political turnout and transparency. This result gives some evidence of a positive answer to the question raised by James Alt and David Dreyer Lassen: Does transparency affect political outcomes such as turnout? To some extent, that the more transparent the budget reports are, the more incentives people have to vote. With respect to three variables??transparency, government fiscal balance, and electoral turnout??three clusters of countries arise: low transparency??fiscal imbalance, low transparency??small fiscal imbalance and high transparency??fiscal surplus."
10.2307_4096605	2006	"Pay disparities between men and women persist in the U.S. workforce despite comparable pay legislation, advocacy, and social change. This article discusses theories of gender pay disparities, such as the glass ceiling, position segregation, agency segregation, and human capital. Using an online national survey, 1,600 responses were collected for four groups of public procurement professionals. The gender wage gap ranged from $5,035 to $9,577. Multiple regression of the data show that gender continues to play a major role in predicting the salaries of public officials in similar positions. Gender and human capital variables predicted between 36.5 percent and 53.9 percent of the variance in pay."
10.2307_25145633	2008	"Collective consumption and benefit characterize many government services. Moreover, government services are mostly paid for collectively through taxes-there is little or no relationship between the taxes paid by a household and its use of a particular service. Public sector decision makers face complex budget problems with difficult solutions. Involving citizens meaningfully in these decisions has long been a conundrum. The authors teamed up with the town of West Hartford, Connecticut, to develop a Web-based survey to overcome some of these participation problems and help decision makers better understand citizen preferences. The Web survey allowed for real-time interactivity and was tailored to present respondents with trade-offs between service levels and taxes."
10.2307_4624612	2007	"To declare that the federal budgetary process is in utter shambles based principally on an analysis of a six-year interval during a single presidential administration, as Professor Irene Rubin does in the preceding article, is unfair to history and misleading. Drawing on significant budgetary experience as a U.S. Senate staff member, the author of this essay argues that (1) the contributions of emergency appropriations and earmarks to the federal budgetary imbalance are overstated, (2) the goal of perpetual budgetary balance is unsound policy, and (3) budgets-inevitably the result of a political process-are artifacts reflecting societal priorities at a given point in time."
10.2307_977605	2001	"Since the early 1990s, the Supreme Court has been issuing decisions that, taken together, constitute a new judicial federalism. This effort is rearranging intergovernmental relations as we have known them for several decades. However, the boundaries of this new doctrine and its implications for public administration are not well understood. This article analyzes the principal constitutional bases for the Court's actions and gauges the balance of this new judicial federalism. It then sorts out the implications for public administration and projects where the Court may be going with this doctrine in the future."
10.2307_977438	2000	"Fifty-one years ago, when liberalism and social welfare democracy were expanding in all advanced industrialized nations, V. O. Key, Jr., forecast the decline of postwar liberalism in the United States. Current discussion of the decline of liberalism has ignored Key or, when evidence is lacking, has incorrectly cited him. In contrast to Key's relatively direct, simple, and heavily documented reasoning, current explanations are multifactorial, complex, less well documented, and often ideologically loaded. Some explanations for the ""postwar"" decline identify causal factors more than six years after the war, yet they ignore events in 1945-47. At the fifty-first anniversary of V. O. Key's Southern Politics in State and Nation, attention to Key's forecast and Occam's razor is called for. Key argued that racism in the South, exerted through congressional committees, would lead to a decline of liberalism in the nation. Using ""legislative histories,"" this article compares Key's single-factor ""racial"" explanation with a two-factor explanation-and by implication with multifactor ones-and finds Key's more compelling and parsimonious. Archival sources indicate that more than two years before the 1948 Democratic Convention, Charlie Ross, Truman's closest advisor, and Truman himself encouraged Key to assess the emerging postwar politics of the South. As Key anticipated, institutionalized racism sunk the Fair Deal and postwar social democracy, despite Truman's efforts. The effects of racism on postwar and current politics and public administration should be reexamined as a key to understanding American distinctiveness or exceptionalism."
10.2307_3542462	2003	"Recent decades have seen a trend in which public policy graduates shun government and enter private-sector employment. In part, the shift reflects changing sectoral opportunities, but its magnitude and consistency are puzzling-even troubling-in light of the need for public-sector talent. Data from a two-year series of surveys and interviews with policy students reveal that many begin their training with uncertain career goals and ambivalence about public-sector work. Interest in government declines from entry to graduation, and it appears that the policy curriculum-heavy on analytic methods and conveying cautions about policy making-does little to promote a public-sector orientation. Those planning to enter government are strongly motivated by a desire to have an impact, whereas those drawn to the private sector seek financial resources and professional development. Many anticipate fluid careers and choose positions expected to offer growth, a feature more commonly associated with private than public jobs."
10.2307_977616	2001	"The countries of the former Soviet Union (FSU) required considerable revision to their budget processes and procedures to establish systems consistent with transformation from controlled dependencies within a larger planned economy to independent governments of fledgling market-oriented democracies. This article considers the degree to which preexisting, reforming, and reformed budget systems in FSU countries deliver the basic expectations of a public sector resource allocation system. Evidence indicates failures to realign budgeting and finance systems designed for command and control environments to the demands of more market based economic systems, with effects often magnified by the hybrid economies of these transitional states. Significant difficulties and shortcomings in the ability of existing systems to perform basic public sector allocation, management, and control functions are the result, but some countries are ahead of others and their experience can guide reforms across the FSU."
10.2307_977504	2001	"In the last few decades, drug testing has become a major policy issue in the workplace, with a host of actors competing to promote their own needs and interests. Employers, for example, seek ways to combat the use and abuse of illegal substances by employees. At the same time, unions and their employees legitimately seek to limit overly intrusive or unfair methods of testing. The courts have also been major players in the policy arena of drug testing, as witnessed by the surfeit of case law setting parameters around what is and is not legal and constitutional in terms of drug testing. In an effort to move the drug-testing debate forward, this article examines the competing interests in drug testing, interests that ultimately frustrate the courts, policy makers, employees, and their unions from reaching a consensus on the use of drug tests in the public sector. To systematically examine this issue, Rosenbloom's competing-perspectives model of public administration is applied. The article concludes with policy recommendations for public managers."
10.2307_977563	1998	"Testing guiding propositions of the Clinton-Gore National Performance Review (NPR), this study examines the role contracting can play in realizing the benefits of advanced information technology. The research evaluates the influence of contracting on the successful implementation and utilization of geographic information systems (GIS) in a local government setting. Based on a two-stage survey and in-depth case interviews, the results suggest that, while contracting may offer some advantages, over-reliance on contracting compromises the implementation and outcomes of GIS. To achieve the National Performance Review's recommendation of using computer technology to reinvent and re-engineer government processes, public managers should balance reliance on contracting with the development of effective in-house capacities in management, planning, and teamwork."
10.2307_4624644	2007	"The majority of information systems developments are unsuccessful. The larger the development, the more likely it will be unsuccessful. Despite the persistence of this problem for decades and the expenditure of vast sums of money, computer failure has received surprisingly little attention in the public administration literature. This article outlines the problems of enthusiasm and the problems of control, as well as the overwhelming complexity, that make the failure of large developments almost inevitable. Rather than the positive view found in much of the public administration literature, the author suggests a pessimism when it comes to information systems development. Aims for information technology should be modest ones, and in many cases, the risks, uncertainties, and probability of failure mean that new investments in technology are not justified. The author argues for a public official as a recalcitrant, suspicious, and skeptical adopter of IT."
10.2307_3110094	2003	"In June 2001, the Federal Bureau of Prisons helped to carry out the execution of Timothy McVeigh for his role in the infamous 1995 bombing of the Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City. The intense national and international media attention that the execution received was virtually unprecedented in the bureau's history, and it put the bureau in the difficult position of having to carry out two potentially conflicting responsibilities: facilitating coverage of the execution by hundreds of reporters, producers, and technicians, while maintaining the safety and security of the maximum security penitentiary in which the execution was held. Historically, the Bureau of Prisons has preferred to maintain a low media profile and had no experience managing a large-scale media event. This article examines how the bureau met this challenge by forming a partnership with the news media through the creation of a Media Advisory Group. It analyzes the goals, functions, and achievements of the Media Advisory Group by employing the Dawes model of interorganizational relationships."
10.2307_977492	2003	"This article addresses how the public service can be reformed to make it relevant to the circumstances and useful to the majority of people living and working in Ghana. In many public administration journals, reforms in sub-Saharan African have received scant attention. Using Ghana as a case study, this article first summarizes and evaluates that country's reform efforts and compares them to mainstream Anglo-American reform ideas. The article comments on the conceptualization of reform based on the notion of community, encompassing the unique political, social, and cultural experiences of the people of Ghana. Finally, the article discusses what a composite formulation of the notion of community might imply for a cross-cultural understanding of comparative public administration."
10.2307_4624617	2007	"Following a wave of state-adopted tax and expenditure limitations (TELs), in 1992 the state of Colorado amended its constitution with the strictest TEL to date. Called the Taxpayer Bill of Rights and known as TABOR, the amendment has limited the size and scope of Colorado governments. Praised as a restraint on unbridled government growth in good economic times, TABOR reared its highly restrictive head as the state economy turned downward. The central issue explored is how binding tax and expenditure limitations affect the state's ability to weather economic recessions and employ sound fiscal management practices. As in most institutional arrangements, the devil is in the details. The analysis presented here reveals that binding limitations create perverse incentives for budgetary actors to earmark, privatize, and shift responsibilities to other jurisdictions, which ultimately combine to reduce the state government's ability to perform and to maintain sound fiscal management practices."
10.2307_3110449	2000	"In July 1995, ASPA's Endowment Board established the Donald C. Stone Fund to honor the memory of this public administration legend. Income from this fund is used to sponsor a lecture or symposium at ASPA's national conference which reflects Stone's varied interests and contributions to the field. This year marked the fifth Donald C. Stone Lecture. On April 4, Harlan Cleveland, former ASPA National President, was ASPA's Visions 2000 Stone Lecturer and gave the following speech."
10.2307_4624541	2007	"This study contributes to our understanding of the differences in work motivation between the public and private sectors. Data from a survey of 3,314 private sector and 409 public sector employees in Belgium strongly confirm previous research showing that public sector employees are less extrinsically motivated. Differences in hierarchical level are more important determinants of work motivation than sectoral differences. In addition, most observed differences can be wholly or partially explained by differences in job content, not by the sector itself. Evidence is presented to show that motivational differences can be explained by a positive choice of work-life balance."
10.2307_977564	1998	"This article examines the concept of ""responsible risk-taking."" What does it entail? How prevalent is it? What is its effect on productivity improvement? The authors examine these questions and report the results from a national survey of municipal managers. Findings show that many senior local government managers are responsible risk-takers, and that such orientations are associated with high levels of productivity and low levels of litigation. However, about 17 percent of the respondents are found to be at-risk entrepreneurs."
10.2307_25145738	2008	"Federalism in education has undergone significant changes since the Winter Commission. During the early 1990s, federal policy makers faced the challenge of organizational fragmentation and policy incoherence in public education. In the last 15 years, the intergovernmental system has evolved from one that is predominantly compliance-driven to one that is performance based, as suggested by the congressional adoption of the No Child Left Behind Act in 2001. While the former is often characterized by images of ""picket fence"" federalism and administrative silos, the latter remains very much a work in progress, with the promise of raising academic proficiency. This paper first examines the paradigm shift and then considers emerging politics in intergovernmental relations. The author explores the ways in which state and local policy makers are altering the rules governing education service provision in response to performance-based federal expectations."
10.2307_976959	1997	"Has affirmative action promoted women and minorities to levels where they perform less well than their white male counterparts? Do women and minorities have to perform better to achieve the same pay? Can racial and sexual differences in performance ratings, whether legitimate or discriminatory, help explain why white men continue to earn more than other apparently comparable employees? Using a 1 percent sample of federal personnel records for the 1990s, I examined racial and sexual differences in performance ratings among employees in similar positions and among comparably educated and experienced employees. Women, especially white women, typically received higher ratings than white men at the same grades in the same agencies. Minorities, however, had somewhat worse chances than nonminorities of receiving ""outstanding"" ratings and were more likely to receive merely ""fully successful"" ratings."
10.2307_977603	2001	"Environmental policy in the United States has always been characterized by high levels of political conflict. At the same time, however, policy makers have shown a capacity to learn from their own and others' experience. This article examines U. S. environmental policy since 1970 as a learning process and, more specifically, as an effort to develop three kinds of capacities for policy learning. The first decade and a half may be seen in terms of technical learning, characterized by a high degree of technical and legal proficiency, but also narrow problem definitions, institutional fragmentation, and adversarial relations among actors. In the 1980s, growing recognition of deficiencies in technical learning led to a search for new goals, strategies, and policy instruments, in what may be termed conceptual learning. By the early 1990s, policy makers also recognized a need for a new set of capacities at social learning, reflecting trends in European environmental policy, international interest in the concept of sustainability, and dissatisfaction with the U. S. experience. Social learning stresses communication and interaction among actors. Most industrial nations, including the United States, are working to develop and integrate capacities for all three kinds of learning. Efforts to integrate capacities for conceptual and social learning in the United States have had mixed success, however, because the institutional and legal framework for environmental policy still is founded on technical learning."
10.2307_977593	2003	"A survey of more than 203 middle and upper-middle managers that assessed their superiors (N=51) in the Canadian public sector showed that charismatic leadership in such a setting comprises four dimensions: (1) energy and determination; (2) vision; (3) challenge and encouragement; and (4) risk taking. However, such leadership is only modestly related to motivational consequences and is not significantly related to unit performance. We discuss our findings in terms of their theoretical implications for leadership research in general and for the public sector in particular."
10.2307_976364	1998	"This article addresses problems found in an earlier work by Guajardo (1996) that was designed to evaluate the reliability and validity of the Measure of Variation (MV) index, a measure used to assess the degree of raciallethnic integration in public organizations. The operation and meaning of the MV are clearly delineated in an attempt to eliminate confusion about what the measure does and what it doesn't do. The concepts of measurement reliability and validity are reviewed and discussed relative to the MV, and errors in the application of analytical techniques by Guajardo are noted. The article concludes by emphasizing the importance of accuracy in the portrayal and use of fundamental methodological concepts."
10.2307_40469075	2009	"Personal income tax has grown in importance in China's revenue system. Revenue from personal income tax was more than 2 trillion RMB yuan for the first halfof2008, a 27 percent increase from the previous year. And while similarities exist between China and the United States, distinctive features separate the two. Hua Xu of Auburn University at Montgomery and Huiyu Cui of Dongbei University of Finance and Economics underscore the for equitable personal income tax reform in China. lessons from the United States, an agenda for future research on tax policy is outlined."
10.2307_25145674	2008	"Democratic reformers are attracted by the role that advisory forums composed of lay citizens can play in public consultation on complex policy issues (such as participatory technology assessment). Using a comparative study of consensus conferences on the issue of genetically modified food in Denmark, France, and the United States, the authors show that the potential of such deliberative ""mini-publics"" is quite different in different sorts of political system. They attend to the mode of establishment, perceived legitimacy, policy impact, and influence on public debate of the forum in each case. In actively inclusive Denmark, mini-publics are deployed in integrative fashion; in exclusive France, in managerial fashion; and in the passively inclusive United States, in advocacy fashion. Proponents and practitioners of deliberative participatory reforms should take into account the constraints and opportunities revealed by this analysis and attend to the different roles that mini-publics might play in different political systems."
10.2307_3542504	2005	"An important but unattended consideration in citizen participation efforts is whether public officials trust citizens and, if not, whether they can formulate and implement policies that really engage, empower, and emancipate citizens. This study attempts to answer four questions: Is public officials' trust in citizens relevant and important? Is it a valid construct that can be differentiated from other constructs? What factors influence its level? And how does trust influence citizen involvement efforts? Based on a survey of 320 public administrators, the study finds that public administrators' trust in citizens is a relevant and valid construct and a predictor of proactive citizen involvement efforts. Public administrators generally have a neutral (neither trustful nor distrustful) view of citizens. Finally, factors affecting the level of trust are identified at the individual, organizational, and societal levels."
10.2307_40469029	2009	"Organizational culture is widely considered to be one of the most significant factors in reforming and modernizing public administration and service delivery. This article documents the findings of a literature review of existing qualitative and quantitative instruments for the exploration of organizational culture. Seventy instruments are identified, of which 48 could be submitted to psychometric assessment. The majority of these are at a preliminary stage of development. The study's conclusion is that there is no ideal instrument for cultural exploration. The degree to which any measure is seen as ""fitfor purpose"" depends on the particular reason for which it is to be used and the context within which it is to be applied."
10.2307_4096572	2006	"Civic engagement and collaborative public management are concepts that are defined broadly, making theoretical explication challenging and practical application of empirical research difficult. In this article, the authors adopt definitions of civic engagement and collaborative public management that are centered on the citizen and the potential for active citizenship. Following a historical review of civic engagement in the United States, a conceptual model of five approaches to civic engagement is offered. Citizen-centered collaborative public management is enhanced through these approaches. The authors suggest the need for further empirical research on collaborative public management that is grounded in citizenship action."
10.2307_3110215	2002	"Despite the normative, political, and instrumental importance of privatizing state-owned enterprises worldwide, practitioners and researchers know little empirically about how different types of citizens feel about these efforts, how they arrive at these judgments, and how enduring these attitudes are likely to be. Using citizen attitudes toward privatization culled from the 1995 French National Election Study, this article offers practitioners and researchers an analytical framework for assessing these attitudes, for anticipating and dealing strategically with the perceived consequences of denationalization efforts, and for refining their understanding of the calculus of consent for market reforms in future survey research."
10.2307_3110169	2002	"Improving the capacity of U.S. governments to provide greater homeland security will require numerous changes in the way federal, state, and local governments are organized and operate. It also will require significant alterations in intergovernmental relations. Changes will be required in intergovernmental dimensions, including operational, financial, legal, and political dimensions. A dual-track approach to rearranging intergovernmental relationships in order to provide a coordinated intergovernmental response to the requirements of homeland security is to be expected."
10.2307_977396	2003	"Public guardians are appointed by the state to meet the needs of incapacitated citizens when no other willing or responsible surrogate decision maker exists. These public administrators, who live the decisional life of another citizen, need meaningful controls and accountability because of the great private and public authority that is entrusted to them. A review of program documents, interviews with public guardians and their program supervisors, and participant observations revealed complex roles for the public guardian: service monitor, service broker, client advocate, surrogate decision maker, and relationship architect. Because of the multiplicity of roles and few controls on their actions, public guardians' accountability should first be drawn from mechanical mechanisms (for instance, thorough audits and sanctions for infractions), but a second and necessary control is the principles of public administration, which are grounded in normative values and democratic governance."
10.2307_25145650	2008	"This study examines the effects of local government divestment on quality and access to care for Medicaid recipients in privatized nursing homes. The central hypotheses are concerned with the impact of new ownership on both aspects of organizational performance. The analysis indicates that privatization of nursing homes involves a complex set of trade-offs. Changing organizational ownership to for-profit increases the number of regulatory violations, decreases residents' quality of life, but does not influence Medicaid admissions. While no decline in quality is found among divested nonprofit facilities, access to care declines in the comparison groups of nonprofit-homes. The author concludes that as counties minimize their roles as service producers, federal, state and local governments should enhance their regulatory capacity by improving quality assurance mechanisms and providing adequate reimbursement for low-income clients."
10.2307_3542461	2003	"This article discusses the early history of performance and productivity measurement. It finds sophisticated development of these tools beginning in the first decade of the twentieth century, primarily at the New York Bureau of Municipal Research. These practices grew out of accounting, the social survey, work records, and municipal statistics. The bureau built government's capacity to measure. They advocated such basic empirical practices as making observations at all, doing so systematically and routinely, and recording data at the time of observation. By 1912, performance measurement exhibited many of the features associated with the modern practice: measuring of input, output, and results; attempting to make government more productive; making reports comparable among communities; and focusing on allocation and accountability. Performance measurement was developed in the context of shifting power between the elected executive and the legislature."
10.2307_3110007	2001	"Emergency management is a complex policy subsystem that involves an intergovernmental, multiphased effort to mitigate, prepare for, respond to, and recover from disasters. This article develops a framework for analyzing the fiscal and functional aspects of disaster policy. It uses established theories of intergovernmental relations to offer a rationale for examining the capabilities required to implement disaster policy and the behavioral incentives that drive policy formulation. In particular, the article identifies the extent to which the capabilities and political objectives characteristic of each level of government are aligned, and illustrates the interplay between incentives and competencies by reviewing the federal disaster funding process. The current rules for federal budgeting may inappropriately promote spending on disaster response and recovery, while de-emphasizing mitigation and preparedness. Various proposals for reform could establish more coherent incentives, making disaster spending more consistent with the relative functional capabilities of the various levels of government."
10.2307_40469078	2009	"What is the real driver of Chinas technological entrepreneurship? Are the United States' science parks the most efficient model for achieving a successful government policy regarding high-technology research, development, and commercialization? This essay sheds light on the important role that central governments play and highlights limitations within each system. It also looks to the future, considering the newly evolving governance model for China's innovation strategy."
10.2307_3542638	2005	"Maintaining a vibrant field of public administration requires ongoing efforts to link the worlds of academic researchers and practitioners. We suggest that research itself, traditionally pursued by academics, is a promising mechanism for making this connection. In particular, researchers and practitioners in public administration can do research together in a way that enhances mutual learning, draws on the strengths of each to create useful knowledge of high quality, appreciates and tolerates of each others' worlds, styles, and contributions. Using research to promote connectedness means rethinking the roles that practitioners and academics play in generating knowledge in the field. In our project, insights from the assumptions and practices of narrative inquiry helped us to identify three research roles for practitioners: as sources of knowledge, as producers of knowledge, and as active consumers who inform the research process."
10.2307_977477	1999	"While there are extensive interdisciplinary studies on entrepreneurship and there continue to be attempts to introduce entrepreneurship in the public sector, we still lack rigorous empirical studies about entrepreneurship. This study first defines three dimensions of managerial entrepreneurship in public and private organizations: 1) product-based entrepreneurship (enhancing customer satisfaction); 2) process-based entrepreneurship (reducing the level of red tape); and 3) behavior-based entrepreneurship (promoting the propensity for risk-taking). It then examines the effects of organizational characteristics (structural, cultural, and environmental factors) on the natue and level of managerial entrepreneurship. Using the data collected by the National Administrative Studies Project (NASP), a set of hypotheses are tested empirically to enhance our understanding of managerial entrepreneurship and its association with organizational factors. This study suggests that the three sets of organizational characteristics (structure, culture, and environment) are each significant in different ways to dimensions of managerial entrepreneurship. It also indicates that organizations need to promote structural as well as cultural reform to pursue different dimensions of managerial entrepreneurship simultaneously."
10.2307_976690	1997	"Harold Seidman has called interagency committees ""the crabgrass in the garden of government."" They are universally condemned, but efforts to extirpate them seldom succeed, for new committees grow in their place. This is because alternatives generally are worse, and there is a compelling need to coordinate programs that sprawl across many agencies. An example of an interagency committee that ""worked,"" at least for a period, is the Committee on Environment and Natural Resources, charged with coordinating the multibillion dollar Global Change Research Program. Born under Reagan, the committee rose to prominence under Bush, being cited as an exemplary model for other interagency programs. Under Clinton, it was used as a prototype again, even as it declined in influence. The evolution of the committee illuminates the key factors that strengthen and weaken interagency cooperation in government."
10.2307_976692	1997	"Since the founding of this nation, the theater metaphor has had an influence on political discourse. Politicians often invoke the metaphor when they enact political dramas to construct themselves in the image of leader. An argument is presented that former President Ronald Reagan and his political strategists made extensive use of this strategy and were effective in portraying public administrators as evil villains. It is also argued that supporters of the administrative state relied on the theater metaphor as well. In an effort to counter Reagan's negative image of villain, supporters responded by portraying public administrators as heroes and innocent victims. This article suggests that the theater metaphor is problematic when viewed from the perspective of public administration theory and practice. The images of villain, hero and innocent victims emanating from the theater metaphor are troublesome and deserve scrutiny."
10.2307_3542656	2006	"State governments in the United States have enthusiastically embraced the idea of managing for results. This appears to represent a victory for New Public Management policy ideas transferred from New Zealand, the United Kingdom, and Australia. The managing for results doctrine that emerged from these countries called for an increased focus on results but also increased managerial authority to achieve results. In return, it was claimed, governments would enjoy dramatic performance improvement and results-based accountability. This article assesses the implementation of public management reform in the United States and argues that the managing for results doctrine has been only partially adopted. State governments selected some of the New Public Management ideas but largely ignored others. In short, state governments emphasized strategic planning and performance measurement but were less successful in implementing reforms that would enhance managerial authority, undermining the logic that promised high performance improvements."
10.2307_4096573	2006	"The authors engage structural and agentic perspectives to examine opportunities for deliberation and the purposeful role of managers in creating those opportunities. Drawing on actor-network theory as a way of understanding the process of structuring knowledge, this essay focuses on the continuous enactment and reenactment of networks of human and nonhuman actants and the associations that connect them. This thinking is applied to policy issues, which the authors propose should be understood as ways of knowing. The fluidity of such ways of knowing provides opportunities for public managers to use the inclusive practices associated with boundary experiences, boundary objects, and boundary organizations to facilitate deliberation."
10.2307_3110281	2002	"In a representative democracy, we assume the populace exerts some control over the actions and outputs of government officials, ensuring they comport with public preferences. However, the growth of the fourth branch of government has created a paradox: Unelected bureaucrats now have the power to affect government decisions (Meier 1993; Rourke 1984; Aberbach, Putnam, and Rockman 1981). In this article, I rely on two competing theories of bureaucratic behavior-representative-bureaucracy theory and Niskanen's budget-maximization theory-to assess how well the top ranks of the federal government represent the demands of the citizenry. Focusing on federal-spending priorities, I assess whether Senior Executive Service (SES) members mirror the attitudes of the populace or are likely to inflate budgets for their own personal gain. Contrary to the popular portrayal of the budget-maximizing bureaucrat (Niskanen 1971), I find these federal administrators prefer less spending than the public on most broad spending categories, even on issues that fall within their own departments' jurisdictions. As such, it may be time to revise our theories about bureaucratic self-interest and spending priorities."
10.2307_4096566	2006	"Boundaries have long played a central role in American public administration. In party this is because boundaries are central to the administrative process, as they define what organizations are responsible for doing and what powers and functions lie elsewhere. It is also because of the nations political culture and unusual system of federalism, in which boundaries have always been the focus of conflict. Five boundaries have historically been important in the American administrative system: mission, resources, capacity, responsibility, and accountability. New forces make managing these boundaries increasingly difficult: political processes that complicate administrative responses, indirect administrative tactics, and wicked problems that levy enormous costs when solutions fail. Working effectively at these boundaries requires new strategies of collaboration and new skills for public managers. Failure to develop these strategies-or an instinct to approach boundaries primarily as political symbolism-worsens the performance of the administrative system."
10.2307_977548	1998	"With the assistance of the executive budget movement, governors came to dominate the state appropriations process by the 1950s. In this article, we maintain that parity between governors and legislatures has replaced that dominance. We discuss four factors that have promoted the end of gubernatorial dominance and examine the consequences of this new equality. Our data derive from a survey conducted in 1994 of chief legislative and executive budget officials in the states."
10.2307_977561	1998	"How can the processes of public participation be improved? This study uses interviews and focus-group discussions to look for some answers. The results suggest that improving public participation requires changes in citizen and administrator roles and relationships and in administrative processes. Specifically, we need to move away from static and reactive processes toward more dynamic and deliberative processes. The article suggests some practical steps to achieve these changes."
10.2307_4624546	2007	"This case study traces the creation and evolution of Medicare hospice policy. The Medicare hospice benefit, created in 1982, emphasizes palliative rather than curative care. It focuses on quality of life for the dying patient and family and encompasses medical, psychological, and spiritual care. Because no standard hospice care practices existed before this benefit was implemented, Medicare rules almost exclusively dictated the structure and delivery of services. Despite initial concerns about low use, spending averaged 17 percent per year between 1991 and 2001, largely driven by increased enrollment, covered days, services provided, and inflation. A rich accumulation of research studies and analyses of specific aspects of the hospice program provides an opportunity for a retrospective analysis of the program's genesis, impact on health care delivery, and implications for future policy decisions."
10.2307_3110189	2002	"The terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, provoked, among other reactions, considerable commentary about the future of American federalism, particularly predictions of administrative centralization. To assess the potential impact of terrorism on U.S. intergovernmental relations and the ways the federal system should respond, members of the American Political Science Association's Section on Federalism and Intergovernmental Relations were surveyed in late 2001. Generally, these federalism scholars believe the September 11 terrorism will have little effect on intergovernmental relations or on the U.S. Supreme Court's state-friendly jurisprudence, and the surge in public trust and confidence in the federal government will be short-lived. The scholars tend to support a highly federalized response to terrorism, but with intergovernmental cooperation. Partisan differences among the scholars on policy options, however, mirror the party differences in Congress and the resurgence of ""politics as usual"" less than a year after September 11, 2001."
10.2307_25145601	2008	"The role of communication in public administration has been emphasized over time in public administration theory. Nonetheless, communication-with the exception of political communication-has been neglected in scholarship. Garnett's performance predicament posits the difficulty of showing linkages between communication and performance. This paper explores the role that communication plays in achieving organizational performance through a review of research that bears on communication's direct and indirect influences on performance. The primary thrust is communication's indirect role in achieving performance by mediating or moderating the effects of organizational culture on performance, thereby adding another perspective on the culture-performance relationship. Adapting the typology of Zammuto and Krakower, two types of organizational culture-rule-oriented culture and mission-oriented culture-are examined to explore how the relationship between organizational culture and organizational performance is influenced by communication. The analysis supports the claim that communication acts as a metamechanism for shaping and imparting culture in mission-oriented organizational cultures, thereby influencing performance. In particular, task orientation, feedback, and upward communication have positive effects on perceived organizational performance in mission-oriented organizations but potentially negative effects on performance in rule-oriented cultures."
10.2307_4624635	2007	"William Robertson, director of the City of Los Angeles' Bureau of Street Services, is profiled here as an exemplary public administrator. The authors suggest that Robertson practices politics appropriately in his role in order to achieve great outcomes for his bureau, the citizens with whom he works, and the city as a whole. To adequately define the ways in which Robertson uses politics, Sherry Arnstein's ""ladder of participation"" is reconceptualized as a circle of participation in which Robertson uses multiple strategies of interaction with citizens, elected officials, employees, and peers. Lessons for public administrators are offered based on Robertson's example."
10.2307_3542629	2004	"The Successful Scholars Project examined the determinants of successful public administration scholars. We surveyed the top 89 public administration scholars alive today (nominated by leaders of five national organizations) and asked them to rank a set of characteristics and behaviors that may have helped them achieve their success. We then analyzed the curricula vitae of 63 of the scholars. This article reports our study's findings and the recommendations of our successful scholars. Scholars heralded good methodological training and quality mentoring as significant. For research, choosing important, cutting-edge issues to write about, not following fads, being oneself, and publishing quality works were touted as important. Presenting research at national conferences also was highly recommended (while chairing committees and serving as discussants were not). Most scholars recommended steering away from administrative positions and university politics. We conclude with lessons for budding public administration scholars as well as lessons for designing public administration doctoral programs."
10.2307_976891	1998	"What are state agencies required to do with respect to performance measurement and performance budgeting? This article addresses the trend toward improving performance in government. Past research on performance-based budgeting (PBB) in the states concentrates on anecdotal information and case analyses, usually including fewer than 10 states. This article provides national coverage of requirements for performance-based budgeting in the states. We survey the 50 states concerning existing or planned legislation related to performance-based budgeting as well as administrative requirements. We review legislation and budget guidelines to determine their scope and focus. Results show that all but three states have performance-based budgeting requirements, and most have established these requirements within the last few years. Thirty-one states have legislated performance-based budgeting to be conducted, while sixteen states have initiated this reform through budget guidelines or instructions. This research analyzes the foundations for conducting performance-based budgeting in the states. It serves as a stepping stone to determining effective methods to create and sustain this budget system in the states."
10.2307_3110104	2003	This article discusses the lack of congruence between academic research and practice in the field of public administration. It argues that this disconnect can be traced to the ambiguous and conflicting goals and expectations of scholarly research: (1) the creation of theoretical versus pragmatic knowledge; (2) the use of data-supported versus logic-driven information; (3) the use of the scientific method versus case studies; (4) the prestige of academic-oriented versus practitioner-oriented journals; and (5) the pressures of academic tenure versus the need for organizational effectiveness. The article explores the state of academic research in other disciplines and offers five solutions to narrow the gap between the academy and the agency settings.
10.2307_4624594	2007	"The public sector contracting literature has long argued that outsourced services need to be and, in fact, are subject to a more elevated level of scrutiny compared to internally delivered services. Recently, the performance measurement and management literature has suggested that the twin themes of accountability and results have altered the management landscape at all levels of government. By focusing on performance monitoring, the implication is that monitoring levels for internally provided services should more closely approximate those for contracted services. The analysis provided here yields empirical comparisons of how governments monitor the same service provided in-house and contracted out. We find evidence that services provided internally by a government's own employees are indeed monitored intensively by the contracting government, with levels of monitoring nearly as high as those for services contracted out to for-profit providers. In contrast, however, we find strong evidence that performance monitoring by the contracting government does not extend to nonprofit and other governmental service providers, each of which is monitored much less intensively than when comparable services are provided internally. For such service providers, it appears that monitoring is either outsourced along with services, or simply reduced."
10.2307_977525	2003	This essay invites reflection on four practical uses of rhetoric: as a way to provide persuasive emphasis in administrative communication; as a technique of analysis to improve public administration and expand its limits; as a resource in identifying individual administrative signature; and as a vehicle for reevaluating public administration's group signature. It reflects on the authors' experiences and considers possibilities for change toward more conscious and effective group self-representations.
10.2307_3843924	2006	"This study examines how cities help social entrepreneurship-the activity of private individuals and organizations taking initiative to address social challenges in their communities. Based on a national survey and in-depth interviews among jurisdictions with populations over 50,000, the authors find that municipalities help social entrepreneurs by increasing awareness of social problems, and by helping them to acquire resources, coordinate with other organizations, and implement programs. Nearly three-quarters of cities provide active or moderate support, which is positively associated with the perceived effectiveness of nonprofit organizations in their communities."
10.2307_27697827	2009	"This study examines the ethical content of legislation regulating the political activities of civil servants. The analysis is done using the ""ethics triangle,"" a tool that encompasses the interdependence of results-based utilitarian ethics, rule-based duty ethics, and virtue-based character ethics. The discussion begins with the importance of the problem, followed by its evolution and current status. After describing the methodology, the central section investigates the values at stake. The conclusion provides a synthesis of the findings, explores the implications of the study, and attempts to answer the question posed in the title of the paper."
10.2307_3109986	1997	"Conflict, agitation, and delay have long defined policy making in the environmental arena. Yet in recent years, collaboration has been utilized in a limited number of cases in an attempt to develop regulatory policy that is more robust and enforceable, and that requires less time and money to develop. A growing literature examines these collaborative ventures, but two questions are left unanswered: Why is collaboration initiated in some instances and not in others, and why does collaboration fail in some instances, yet produce consensus in others? In this article we examine the collaborative effort to negotiate a regulation (a ""reg-neg"") for the development and use of reformulated gasoline (RFG) as a means to reduce urban smog. While the reformulated gasoline case met criteria established by regulators as essential for applying a reg-neg, the potential for conflict and indeed failure was very high. Nevertheless, a consensus agreement was reached and the reformulated gasoline rule was implemented on time (January 1995) as mandated by Congress. Based upon interviews conducted with participants in the reformulated gasoline reg-neg and government documents related to the proceedings, we identify a three-part ""assurance mechanism"" necessary for bringing participants to the negotiating table and keeping them there until an agreement is reached. This mechanism stands as a model to be tested in other research of collaborative policy making. We also examine the effectiveness of collaboration for producing a workable and acceptable regulation."
10.2307_3843939	2006	"The terror attacks of September 11, 2001, posed a set of security challenges for the nation's cities that the increasingly decentralized federal system was poorly prepared to meet. Although it was generally agreed that domestic security required a close intergovernmental partnership, strong national leadership and support were lacking in creating and guiding this partnership. To make matters more difficult, political considerations in Congress generally trumped the assessment of security risks in the distribution of federal fiscal aid. This article explores the strains in the intergovernmental homeland security partnership, their causes, and efforts to adapt and reform. Despite some progress toward a more rational public administration of homeland security, the partnership still reflects the deficiencies of imperfect federalism."
10.2307_3110216	2002	"This article examines the potential for partnership to address two major challenges in public service: (1) the evolving sociopolitical context of public service, that is, the increasing incidence and intensity of conflict among diverse stakeholders; and (2) the formulation of acceptable and feasible global public policy. The partnership approach, its value added, and its operationalization are examined through the World Commission on Dams, a partnership designed to resolve conflicts over large dam projects. The analysis identifies lessons that are specific to conflict-based partnerships for global public policy making and regarding partnership work more generally. The importance of converging interests, policy champions, democratic processes, and perception are highlighted. Intense conflict provides incentives for joint solution, but process agreement is paramount, and conflict resolution is not a one-time effort for all. The World Commission on Dams demonstrates that partnership is an effective and efficient approach to addressing conflictive policy issues."
10.2307_3542654	2006	"This study presents the first empirical test of the proposition that strategy content is a key determinant of organizational performance in the public sector. Strategy content comprises two dimensions: strategic stance (the extent to which an organization is a prospector, defender, or reactor) and strategic actions (the relative emphasis on changes in markets, services, revenues, external relationships, and internal characteristics). Data were drawn from a multiple-informant survey of 119 English local authorities. Measures of strategy content are included in a multivariate model of interauthority variations in performance. The statistical results show that strategy content matters. Organizational performance is positively associated with a prospector stance and negatively with a reactor stance. Furthermore, local authorities that seek new markets for their services are more likely to perform well. These results suggest that measures of strategy content must be included in valid theoretical and empirical models of organizational performance in the public sector."
10.2307_3109905	2002	"This article examines orientations toward workplace friendship. Based on a survey of senior managers in cities with populations over 50,000, it addresses the following questions: Do senior managers promote, condone, or discourage workplace friendship? What risks and benefits of workplace friendships do these managers perceive? What policies and strategies that affect workplace friendship are found in organizations? How do these organizational efforts affect perceptions of employee performance? This article finds that, despite the risks, orientations in favor of workplace friendships are widespread, and many jurisdictions engage in efforts to promote them."
10.2307_3109983	1997	"Telephone interviews with 1,000 citizens and follow-up personal interviews with 42 citizens make up the stories citizens tell in two Texas cities. These stories were reviewed by four managers in the cities. Interviews with these managers reveal seven types of knowledge: crowd, garbage, pothole, siren, resurfacing, medal, and general knowledge. The managers reacted to the stories with anger, frustration, surprise, shock, and defensiveness, but they also reacted with humor, relief, empathy, and with a recognition that in some instances, change was necessary. The managers used the stories to improve communications with citizens, alter spending priorities, reverse policy decisions, and improve their interpersonal skills. The stories also contained threatening information, and the managers engaged in efforts to protect city officials from undue criticism."
10.2307_977456	2001	"Two criticisms of public administration research have been leveled. First, knowledge in the field is not being cumulated. Second, the research has low quality. A preference for case studies as a form of scientific inquiry is behind both criticisms. The authors propose a solution to the first problem by showing how meta-analysis can be used to cumulate knowledge using case study evidence. Viewed cumulatively, case studies comprise an intellectual goldmine awaiting discovery. The authors challenge the second criticism, proposing that quality judgments should be based on the important principle of knowledge cumulation, which acknowledges the value of all research methods."
10.2307_977559	1998	"This article assesses the determinants of the extent of use of a computer-based expert system by managers in the florida Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles. The Department designed the expert system-called the Supervisor Assistance System-to help supervisors determine appropriate disciplinary actions for a variety of employee offenses. Our empirical analysis is based on responses to a 1992 survey of department managers, and our results confirm the applicability of Van Meter and Van Horn's theory of policy implementation for explaining the implementation of a managerial innovation. Consistent with Van Meter and Van Horn's framework, communication, dispositional and capability factors are all required to explain the extent to which a department manager will use the Supervisor Assistance System. our findings suggest lessons for how to implement expert systems in government agencies so that the agencies may experience the benefits of computer technology."
10.2307_977620	2001	"The authors are concerned that a remaining refuge of substantive democracy in America, the public sector, is in danger of abandoning it in favor of the market model of management. They argue that contemporary American democracy is confined to a shrunken procedural remnant of its earlier substantive form. The classical republican model of citizen involvement faded with the rise of liberal capitalist society in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Capitalism and democracy coexist in a society emphasizing procedural protection of individual liberties rather than substantive questions of individual development. Today's market model of government in the form of New Public Management goes beyond earlier ""reforms,"" threatening to eliminate democracy as a guiding principle in public-sector management. The authors discuss the usefulness of a collaborative model of administrative practice in preserving the value of democracy in public administration."
10.2307_3542538	2004	"Leadership scholars have theorized that leaders of an organization must have an appropriate ""fit"" with those they lead and with their environment. Yet, there is no empirical research to date that has explored this belief. We develop a theoretical model to determine the factors influencing the fit of a city manager, indicated by his or her tenure. We argue that six sets of explanations may help determine the fit of the city manager: the manager's leadership style, his or her personality type, the city manager's perception about fit, the perceptions of city councils, the demographics of the city managers, and the demographics of the cities where they work. Based on a rigorous nation-wide study of city managers, the study shows that the fit of city managers is significantly influenced by two of the six sets of explanations. Implications for scholars, city managers, and practitioners are drawn from the study's analysis and findings."
10.2307_25145709	2008	"Managing for social equity performance has long been a goal without much guidance for public managers. We examine social equity performance in the context of indirect governance through the administration of grant programs and, more specifically, the matching of policy responses (grant funding) to social needs. Grant program managers must allocate funding to match needs while also ensuring accountability, but common administrative models that rely on competition can undermine social equity performance. We develop a unique framework to analyze the relative social equity performance of four models of grant administration in general. These models are defined by whether competitions or formulas are used to select grantees and to allocate funding. We test the implications of the framework in an analysis of funding distributions from the nonentitlement Community Development Block Grant program in four states. Our findings suggest that social equity in grant programs is better served when grantors do not rely solely on competitive grant contracting in the selection and distribution of grant funds, which is typical in grant administration. However, policy makers and managers can design institutional arrangements that utilize competition, but in a manner that does not create a bias against more socially equitable funding decisions."
10.2307_977634	1999	"Short-term overseas assignments are always challenging for public administration professionals-especially when the setting is post-war Bosnia. Based on the author's experience in 1996 and 1997 as a consultant to a major USAID-sponsored project on budget reform and fiscal federalism in that former Yugoslav republic, this article presents six lessons that may help other would-be technical advisors negotiate the shoals of foreign assignments. This is timely advice, given the increasing number of public administration assistance missions from the West underway in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union. The lessons range from the need for careful advance preparation (""learn anatomy before doing surgery"") to the importance of rethinking the usual consultant-client relationship (""balance advocacy for your client with advocacy to your client""). The article also reflects on the apparent here-we-go-again irony of current efforts to transplant Western administrative institutions to foreign soil and asks how, despite decades of cautionary admonitions from experts in comparative and development administration, we can still be sending such innocents abroad."
10.2307_4096595	2006	"Lawrence M. Mead is a professor of politics at New York University, where he teaches courses on public policy and American government. He is the author and editor of six books on welfare and social policy. His recent book Government Matters: Welfare Reform in Wisconsin (Princeton University Press, 2004) was a co-recipient of the 2005 Louis Brownlow Book Award, which is given by the National Academy of Public Administration. In the spring of 2006, Professor Mead was interviewed by Kevin R. Kosar on behalf of PAR."
10.2307_3110299	1999	"This article discusses globalization and its implications for public administration. Using a political economy approach, an analysis is made of the different meanings and perspectives of globalization, of the causes and consequences of globalization, and of the underpinnings or constitutive elements of globalization, a phenomenon that is all-embracing with transworld and far-reaching implications for society, governance, and public administration. Causes of globalization are discussed, such as the economic factors of surplus accumulation, corporate reorganization, shift of corporate power structure, global money and financialization, global state and administration, domestic decline, rising human expectations, innovations, and global supranational organizations such as the United Nations. Consequences of globalization are discussed, including the positive impact such as continuity and persistence of the state and public administration, but also its negative consequences such as threat to democracy and community, increasing corruption, and elite empowerment. Then a discussion is made of the converging, hegemonic global order with a question of possible counter-hegemonic model that might alter the dominant world order. Finally, the article presents a number of significant implications-positive and negative-for public administration as a theory and practice, from both American and comparative/international perspectives."
10.2307_3542534	2004	"The increased use of information technology promises to revolutionize both the provision of government services and the vibrancy of democracy. In the aftermath of the Florida voting controversy during the 2000 presidential election, governments have placed their faith in technology, adopting e-voting machines that offer enhanced voter convenience and eliminate the need for subjective recounts. However, the same underlying assumptions that apply to e-government theory do not apply to e-voting because of the severity of consequences if failure occurs and the loss of transparency traditionally associated with the voting process. A more useful theoretical guide is systems theory, which deals with complex, high-risk systems. This literature has been largely overlooked by adopters of e-voting technology, even though the practical criticisms of e-voting made by computer security specialists reflect an essentially systems theory perspective."
10.2307_976887	1998	"A partial redirection is proposed for the activities of ASPA's Section on International and Comparative Administration (SICA) as it enters its second quarter century. Implicit in the SICA mission is the task of integrating the study and practice of comparative and international administration, but much remains to be done in bringing about closer collaboration than has been achieved in the past between specialists in these two subfields."
10.2307_977547	1998	"The Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995 (UMRA), which took effect on January 1, 1996, made two important changes in the way information about the budgetary impact of federal mandates is provided to and used by Congress. First, the act increased the supply of information about such costs by encouraging the Congressional Budget Office to place a higher priority on preparing state and local cost estimates. Second, the new law signaled congressional willingness to use that information by establishing new points of order procedures. A review of the act's first year indicates that both the quantity and quality of information provided to Congress about federal mandates did increase. Furthermore, that information played a prominent role in the congressional debate over several issues in 1996. By focusing the mandates debate narrowly, however, the act's long-term usefulness as a tool for improving intergovernmental relations may be limited."
10.2307_40469072	2009	"Budgeting is an important mechanism for ensuring public accountability. How do budget reforms in the United States during the Progressive Era compare to those in contemporary China? Are administrative and legislative budget controls essential to an effective, efficient government? Though the two countries differ in many respects, significant parallels between their budget reforms are evident. In the United States, electoral accountability alone does not guarantee overall government accountability if proper budgetary institutions are absent. Chinas recent budget reform reveals that it is possible to develop accountability, absent open elections, but with limitations and constraints. Lessons on budgeting and accountability for other developing and transitional countries are drawn from this comparative study."
10.2307_27697883	2009	"Some scholars have argued that environmental regulatory pressures constrain organizations' financial opportunities, while others maintain that environmental regulations can spur product and technology innovations and encourage greater operational efficiencies. Advocates on both sides have evidence in support of their positions. However, considering both perspectives in tandem and recognizing that other factors may be associated with improved financial performance, we may find that neither position is valid, or that both are. Relying on data for manufacturing facilities in seven countries, this study shows that more stringent environmental policy regimes are related to diminished firm profits. Yet organizations that are motivated by a green production focus??defined as enhancing internal efficiencies and new product and technology development??are more likely to improve their environmental performance. They also demonstrate a greater probability of benefiting financially, thereby offsetting the cost of regulation or accruing a net gain."
10.2307_3110167	2002	"The destruction of the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001, resulted in a rapid response by government to evacuate the area and, in subsequent days, to bring the city back to a semblance of normalcy. This article provides a case study of government action in New York City during and after the World Trade Center catastrophe. What is most striking is the skill and intensity of government's response to the emergency and the hard work, dedication, and bravery of New York City's government officials. This article presents government and public service at its finest, under some of the most difficult conditions one can imagine."
10.2307_3542520	2005	"Developments in public affairs that stress governance-not simply government-hold possibilities for reframing democracy. Governance intimates a paradigm shift in the meaning of democracy and civic agency-that is, who is to address public problems and promote the general welfare? The shift involves a move from citizens as simply voters, volunteers, and consumers to citizens as problem solvers and cocreators of public goods; from public leaders, such as public affairs professionals and politicians, as providers of services and solutions to partners, educators, and organizers of citizen action; and from democracy as elections to democratic society. Such a shift has the potential to address public problems that cannot be solved without governments, but that governments alone cannot solve, and to cultivate an appreciation for the commonwealth. Effecting this shift requires politicizing governance in nonpartisan, democratizing ways and deepening the civic, horizontal, pluralist, and productive dimensions of politics."
10.2307_4096603	2006	"This essay aims to uncover how and in what ways gender figures in the three National Performance Review reports. The analysis uncovers the different ways that gender operates in the reports andy in doing so, highlights why policy language matters. At the analytic level of the word, the reports are gender inclusive. At the analytic level of the sentence, the figurative language, metaphors, and bridging assumptions privilege experiences and actions that are socially constructed as male and rely on traditional gender stereotypes about work, family, and government service use. At the analytic level of discourse, masculine market and feminine care discourses are identified and explicated. That care discourse emerged amid a movement to make government more businesslike and market oriented suggests that perhaps care values and practices deserve greater intellectual scrutiny."
10.2307_4624614	2007	"This study considers recent evidence of state innovation capacity in order to better understand where new economy-type economic development is likely to occur and, by extrapolation, where strategies geared toward such growth are more likely to succeed. The research focuses on data from the National Science Foundation's State Science and Engineering Profiles, supplemented by data from other sources. Factor analysis was performed on this data set to observe underlying common factors that explain the variability of the original data in fewer dimensions. The resulting factor scores-human capacity and financial capacity-were used to classify states into four categories of new economy resource density: lagging, low, developing, and progressive. The scores for the two resulting factors were then used as independent variables in subsequent regression analyses, demonstrating positive correlations among innovation capacity resources, actual innovations, and overall state economic performance."
10.2307_976362	1998	"Public policy decisions often require the establishment of a balance between conflicting objectives. Pursuit of this balance is evident in changing fiscal relationships between states and local governments, particularly in the area of public school funding. Trends toward greater funding responsibility at the state level have generated conflicts associated with diminished local control over traditionally local decisions. A fundamental trade-off between equity and efficiency objectives in the provision of public education underlies the political tensions inherent in altering school funding responsibilities. In 1992, Kansas adopted a school funding reform that transferred most public school funding decisions-both taxing and spending-to the state. This reform provides an opportunity to observe the consequences of a significant shift in state-local fiscal relations as well as the conflicts associated with balancing redistribution efforts and the desire of local government for autonomy. A political compromise struck in Kansas-the local option budget-serves as a major concession to local control, and it reduces the severity of the constraints inherent in Kansas's highly centralized reform. An assessment of the Kansas reform indicates that it has enhanced equity-defined as equalized, cost-adjusted, per-pupil expenditures across districts-and that the local option budget compromise can be viewed as a moderate price to pay for what it permits: political acceptance of a highly centralized, explicitly redistributive government initiative."
10.2307_977313	1997	"The iterative shifting of responsibilities among levels of governments contributes to the lack of effectiveness and efficiency in intergovernmental service delivery. How do federal, state, and local governments coordinate their efforts when confronted with uncertainty and continual change?"
10.2307_3110168	2002	"The events of September 11, 2001, have raised troubling questions regarding the reliability and security of American commercial air travel. This article applies the concepts and logic of high-reliability organizations to airport security operations. Contemporary decision theory is built on the logic of limited or buffered rationability and is based on the study of error-tolerant organizations. The concept of high-reliability organizations is based on the study of nearly error-free operations. For commercial air travel to be highly secure, there must be very high levels of technical competence and sustained performance; regular training; structure redundancy; collegial, decentralized authority patterns; processes that reward error discovery and correction; adequate and reliable funding; high mission valence; reliable and timely information; and protection from external interference in operations. These concepts are used to inform early-stage issues being faced by both local airports and the newly established Transportation Security Administration."
10.2307_3542494	2004	"Landmark welfare reform legislation passed in 1996 has been operating by legislative extensions since its expiration in September 2002. At this writing, reauthorization has been derailed by controversy over various legislative proposals. In this article, we contribute to the welfare policy debate by studying the importance of specific policy tools and the role of public administration in the dramatic fall in welfare caseloads from 1996 to 2000. Using administrative and survey data on welfare programs in 44 states, we test our theory that caseload reduction is a function of administrative commitments, policy design, and administrative actions linked to five sets of governance variables: environmental factors, client characteristics, treatments, administrative structures, and managerial roles and actions. We find strong evidence that administrative action to move clients into work, coupled with administrative commitments, can provide important links between policy goals and policy outcomes."
10.2307_25145736	2008	"Collaborations between nonprofit and public sector organizations have become an increasingly important phenomenon in state and local public service delivery since the publication of the Winter Commission report in 1993. This article focuses on one of the less studied types of public-nonprofit collaborations, those in which philanthropic support from nonprofit organizations supplements the resources and activities of public agencies. Drawing on the case of ""nonprofit-as-supplement collaborations"" that support park services in New York City, this article documents the benefits and drawbacks associated with such collaborations. While they can provide increased resources and encourage management innovations, they also can lead to inequities in the availability and quality of services, the preponderance of particularistic goals over the broader public interest, and the politicization of previously bureaucratic decision making. The authors offer two strategies for public managers to realize more effectively the benefits yet mitigate the shortcomings of these collaborations."
10.2307_977517	2003	"The annual Internal Revenue Service Form 990 tax filing is the principal disclosure mechanism for nonprofit organizations. Although considerable efforts have been made to improve the accuracy and accessibility of Form 990, questions remain as to whether this data source is the most desirable foundation for a system of nonprofit accountability. Taking a broad perspective on financial accountability, this article assesses not only the quality and availability of the financial data, but also the entire financial-reporting model. The article develops a framework for thinking critically about nonprofit financial accountability. After examining the current structure of nonprofit financial reporting and contrasting it with alternative systems developed for other industries, the article concludes with recommendations for reengineering nonprofit financial accountability."
10.2307_27697859	2009	"The unraveling of the budget process described by Irene Rubin will have extraordinary consequences for the longterm budget outlook facing the nation. The retirement of the baby boom generation will prompt unprecedented and unsustainable structural fiscal imbalances for decades to come. Early policy action on the spending and revenue sides of the budget is critical to avert fiscal and economic crisis and to phase in changes in order to avoid preciptious and politically perilous actions in the future. Yet such actions constitute what amounts to a politically unnatural act, as one generation of political leaders is asked to make sacrifices in current policies benefiting future generations. Budget process reforms can serve to highlight the salience of these issues and help deal with the significant political hurdles faced by decision makers in making these intertemporal budgeting trade-offs. Ironically, the need for budget rules and processes has intensified as policy makers have become more vulneralbe to polarized political parties, ever more watchful media, and mobilized interest groups. Budget rules and processes can help policy makers cope by protecting their ability to make the hard choices that will be necessary. The pressures for budget process reform will accelerate as the current financial crisis increases near-term budgetary pressures, promoting greater alignment between near-term and long-term fiscal problems."
10.2307_3542475	2005	"The Global Forum on Reinventing Government has made government reform and new forms of comparative public administration and politics global issues. Since the forum was initiated in the United States in 1999, it has been held in locations around the world with broad representation. Yet the proceedings of these forums have not been fully reported to the international public administration community. This paper reports on the ideas on reinventing governance that emerged from the Sixth Global Forum. Many of the participants in the forum came from developing countries, so the paper also provides ideas and points of view on governance that are beyond the mainstream literature in this area."
10.2307_3843899	2006	"Virtue has long been a central principle in the tradition of public service-to what extent is it still relevant today? Focusing on the role of the monitoring officer, a key official in the ethical framework of local government in the United Kingdom, this essay asks which virtues, if any, are still needed for public service and whether these virtues have been displaced by managerial notions of technical competence as the principles of public service delivery. The authors draw an initial distinction between virtue and competence that, upon further investigation, does not appear to be sustainable. Despite being drawn from two different academic perspectives-moral philosophy and management development-the concepts of virtue and competence are, in practice, very similar. This theoretical convergence is reflected in the practical concerns of monitoring officers and their perspective on public service ethics."
10.2307_4624567	2007	"University administrators have made difficult choices in response to the changing policy context for the use of affirmative action in admissions. This paper synthesizes the empirical literature on affirmative action and evaluates the efficacy of alternative strategies, including top-percent programs, class-based affirmative action, and targeted recruiting. The analyses offer several findings of interest to officials who direct such programs: (1) Affirmative action preferences given by top-tier universities have been large; (2) affirmative action leads minorities to enroll in higher-quality institutions; and (3) affirmative action has mostly positive effects on minority students later in life. The evidence shows a decline in minorities' relative share of enrollment at flagship public universities after affirmative action was eliminated in several states, and the alternative strategies used by these universities have not offset these declines."
10.2307_3843933	2006	"The federal civil service has developed in fits and starts, with specific reforms fashioned in reaction to the particular political considerations of a given time. Yet the concept of merit has remained a central, albeit malleable, sometimes neglected, and perhaps quaint ideal. Reinvention, efficiency, and effectiveness must honor excellence and the notion of public service as a calling."
10.2307_27697909	2009	"Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac are insolvent and in government hands. Political forces led many lawmakers to neglect warnings from public administration academics and practitioners about the vulnerabilities of government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs). Private ownership combined with government backing let the two companies dominate their markets and the political process. GSEs successfully resisted bank-type regulation and capital requirements. The options now include restoring the two GSEs in some form, transforming them into temporary or longer-term wholly owned government corporations, or simply ending them. This article discusses the advantages and drawbacks of each option. Again, the public administration literature provides useful suggestions about organizational alternatives."
10.2307_3542505	2005	"A traditional view of scholarly quality defines rigor as the application of method and assumes an implicit connection with relevance. But as an applied field, public administration requires explicit attention to both rigor and relevance. Interpretive scholars' notions of rigor demand an explicit inclusion of relevance as an integral aspect of quality. As one form of interpretive research, narrative inquiry illuminates how this can be done. Appreciating this contribution requires a deeper knowledge of the logic of narrative inquiry, an acknowledgement of the diversity of narrative approaches, and attention to the implications for judging its quality. We use our story about community-based leadership research to develop and illustrate this argument."
10.2307_3542675	2006	"This article examines the stability of street-level bureaucrats' negative perceptions regarding a newly implemented managed care system on quality of care and service delivery in a publicly funded behavioral health care system. Overall findings indicate that the generally negative perception of managed care did not differ between staff in the two programs, indicating a weak effect on attitudes of frontline workers. More proximal variables to the caregiver, such as service type and job title, show more influence on attitudes. The conclusion discusses the implications of these findings for practicing administrators and academic researchers."
10.2307_25145622	2008	"The study of public administration has a decidedly secular character, a result of an intentional effort to seek legitimacy through professionalization that can be traced back to the Progressive Era. But is this secular orientation wholly descriptive of the practice of public administration? To address this question, the authors examine the religiosity of public servants (governmental and nongovernmental) and non-public servants, as well as the secular attitudes held by members of each group. The study finds that individuals in governmental public service occupations generally are more religious and possess less secular attitudes than those in non-public service occupations."
10.2307_3110017	2002	"We propose a series of stakeholder analyses designed to help organizations-especially governments-think and act strategically during the process of problem formulation in order to advance the common good. Specifically, we argue that at least five sets of analyses are necessary, including the creation of (1) a power versus interest grid; (2) a stakeholder influence diagram; (3) bases of power-directions of interest diagrams; (4) a map for finding the common good and structuring a winning argument; and (5) diagrams indicating how to tap individual stakeholder interests to pursue the common good. What the analyses do is help to transform a seemingly ""wicked problem""-for example, how to produce better outcomes for African American men aged 18-30-into something more tractable, and therefore amenable to collective action. In other words, stakeholder analysis can be used to link political rationality with technical rationality so that support can be mobilized for substantive progress."
10.2307_4624695	2007	"Hurricane Katrina was as much a communication disaster as it was a natural and bureaucratic disaster. Communication gaps, missed signals, information technology failures, administrative buffering, turf battles, and deliberate and unintentional misinterpretations delayed and handicapped both the recognition of the crisis that Katrina posed and the response to its devastation. This essay views crisis communication through four conceptual lenses: (1) crisis communication as interpersonal influence, (2) crisis communication as media relations, (3) crisis communication as technology showcase, and (4) crisis communication as interorganizational networking. A conceptual framework is presented that compares these lenses with regard to agency, transparency, technology, and chronology. The planning, response, and recovery stages of the Hurricane Katrina disaster are viewed through these communication conceptual lenses, illustrating key facets of each perspective and adding to our deepening understanding of the events."
10.2307_4096569	2006	"People who want to tackle tough social problems and achieve beneficial community outcomes are beginning to understand that multiple sectors of a democratic society-business, nonprofits and philanthropies, the media, the community, and government-must collaborate to deal effectively and humanely with the challenges. This article focuses on cross-sector collaboration that is required to remedy complex public problems. Based on an extensive review of the literature on collaboration, the article presents a propositional inventory organized around the initial conditions affecting collaboration formation, process, structural and governance components, constraints and contingencies, outcomes, and accountability issues."
10.2307_4624589	2007	"This study uses board governance as an analytical lens for exploring the effects of government funding on the representational capacities of nonprofit organizations. A typology of governance patterns is first developed that captures the board's strength relative to the chief executive and its representation of community interests. Using this typology and employing multinomial logit analyses of survey data from a sample of urban charitable organizations, the study tests how nonprofit governance is mediated by levels of government funding. Controlling for other relevant environmental and institutional factors, reliance on government funding decreases the likelihood that nonprofit organizations will develop strong, representative boards."
10.2307_977400	2003	"Judicial independence in American politics has been hailed as a means of preserving individual liberty and minority rights against the actions of the majoritarian branches of government. Recently, however, legal professionals and scholars of the courts have begun to question the magnitude of judicial independence, suggesting that budgeting and finance issues pose a threat to judicial independence. This article explores whether state judiciaries are being threatened on this front by soliciting the perceptions of key state officials. Using surveys of court administrators, executive budget officers, and legislative budget officers in the states, we examine three aspects of the politics of judicial budgeting: competing for scarce resources, interbranch competition, and pressure to raise revenues. The survey responses suggest that, in a substantial number of states, judicial independence has, at times, been threatened by interbranch competition and pressures to raise revenues."
10.2307_3542526	2005	"Community partnerships or networks of collaborating public and nonprofit organizations are an important way of addressing a wide range of problems and needs that communities face. In the academic literature, network analysis has been used to analyze and understand the structure of the relationships that make up multiorganizational partnerships. But this tool is not well-known outside the small group of researchers who study networks, and it is seldom used as a method of assisting communities. This article briefly discusses network analysis and how community leaders can use the results generated by this tool to strengthen relationships among public and nonprofit organizations, thereby building the community's capacity to address critical needs in areas such as health, human services, social problems, and economic development."
10.2307_977061	1997	"In the last quarter century, change was a predominant characteristic of state budgeting practices. Some of the most dramatic and thorough changes came in the areas of computer applications to budgeting, in the capabilities of accounting systems, and in the financial control exerted by budget offices through accounting systems. Budget office personnel have become better educated. A noticeable shift has occurred away from professional training in business and accounting toward public administration. Although states substantially increased their use of program information and analysis in budgeting between 1970 and 1990, some backsliding was detected between 1990 and 1995, a fact that may be disheartening to budget reformers. Regardless of whether these trends of the 1990s continue, by the year 2000 long-advocated reforms will almost certainly not be accomplished in many state governments."
10.2307_3843914	2006	"The contracting of public services has been an integral part of public managers work for a long time, and it is here to stay. This essay sums up current research on the topic for busy practitioners and scholars. Where are we today with respect to the problems and pitfalls of contracting out, from balancing equity with efficiency to confronting the frequent problem of imperfect markets?"
10.2307_3542465	2003	"Recent studies of the theory of representative bureaucracy have focused on active representation, whereby administrators in public organizations work to advance the interests of particular groups, achieving policy outcomes that directly address the needs of those groups. The concept of administrative discretion is central to these studies, as an administrator must have the discretion to produce results that reflect the values and beliefs of these groups. While the presence of discretion is often implied in these studies, few have examined it explicitly. Using data from the Farmer's Home Administration, we explore whether administrators who perceive themselves as having more discretion enact policy outcomes that are more representative of minority interests. The results strongly support the conclusion that administrators who perceive themselves as possessing significant discretion and who assume the role of minority representative in their agencies are more likely to enact policy outcomes that favor minority interests."
10.2307_3843920	2006	"Many widely publicized arrangements bearing the popular ""public-private partnership"" label are complex, long-term contracts between municipalities and private companies. In theory, these innovative contracts offer substantial public benefits, including improved service quality, risk sharing with the private sector, and cost savings. In practice, however, the challenges that long-term contracts pose can undermine their successful implementation at the local level. Drawing on illustrative cases, this article explores some practical impediments to achieving market-driven competition, equitable risk sharing, effective performance guarantees and appropriate transparency in innovative long-term contracts. It examines the inapplicability of the partnership model to most commercial transactions between government and business, the risks of uncontrollable circumstances, the impact of local resource constraints, and barriers to transparency in long-term contracts. It concludes that local governments embarking on long-term contracts must invest in specialized expertise, effective contract management, and strong governance structures."
10.2307_3542601	2004	"There is a growing need for innovative methods of dealing with complex, social problems. New types of collaborative efforts have emerged as a result of the inability of more traditional bureaucratic hierarchical arrangements such as departmental programs to resolve these problems. Network structures are one such arrangement that is at the forefront of this movement. Although collaboration through network structures establishes an innovative response to dealing with social issues, there remains an expectation that outcomes and processes are based on traditional ways of working. It is necessary for practitioners and policy makers alike to begin to understand the realities of what can be expected from network structures in order to maximize the benefits of these unique mechanisms."
10.2307_977507	2001	"We use the 1991 Survey of Federal Government Employees to test a theoretical framework regarding the relationships between work and family demands, family-friendly policies, satisfaction with work-family balance, and job satisfaction for diverse groups of employees with different personal and family needs. We find that a variety of policies widely presumed to be ""family friendly"" were used to varying degrees by disparate groups of federal employees. The use of such policies had very diverse effects on both employee satisfaction with work-family balance and job satisfaction, within and across various groups of similarly situated employees. The assumptions underlying the provision of family-friendly policies and implications for the organization are examined."
10.2307_40469086	2009	"Can e-governance fulfill the ideal of citizen-centric government around the world? This comparative study examines Taiwan and the United States and offers PAR readers relevant management and policy lessons. The research utilizes a framework that captures the institutionaly organizational, and technological drivers of e-governance performance. The results indicate that the United States and Taiwan excel in different areas, but could improve in others and thereby learn from each other."
10.2307_977586	2003	"When Hong Kong reintegrated with China in 1997, one critical issue was whether the flourishing center of economic activity with an efficient administrative framework would lose its advantages and become just another city of the People's Republic of China. This article examines the process of managing transition as socialist China tries to accommodate capitalist Hong Kong. With strong forces of globalization at play, both units have had to embark on administrative reforms to make their systems compatible with the demands of the new circumstances. An overview of the reforms they have undertaken reveals that convergence is possible despite markedly different points of departure. However, while the forces of globalization press for increased convergence, the forces of institutional arrangements and history present a major challenge. The balance of the push and pull of convergent and divergent forces will determine the direction and outcome of administrative reforms in China and Hong Kong."
10.2307_4096571	2006	"The multifaceted challenges of contemporary governance demand a complex account of the ways in which those who are subject to laws and policies should participate in making them. This article develops a framework for understanding the range of institutional possibilities for public participation. Mechanisms of participation vary along three important dimensions: who participates, how participants communicate with one another and make decisions together, and how discussions are linked with policy or public action. These three dimensions constitute a space in which any particular mechanism of participation can be located. Different regions of this institutional design space are more and less suited to addressing important problems of democratic governance such as legitimacy, justice, and effective administration."
10.2307_3542491	2004	"The World Trade Organization and other intergovernmental organizations confront a crisis of legitimacy that is partly rooted in their perceived secretiveness. These organizations have attempted to address this crisis by promising ""the maximum possible level of transparency,"" but in fact, the improvements have been modest. Policies regarding access to information about inter-governmental organizations' operations continue to accommodate conventions of diplomatic confidentiality. Such conventions are more likely to be breached in areas where disclosure of information is essential to economic liberalization. A true revolution in transparency would require more rigorous policies on disclosure of information held by intergovernmental organizations such as the World Trade Organization, and could be justified as a prerequisite for the exercise of basic human rights, such as the right to participate fully in the policy-making process."
10.2307_3843895	2006	"In 1955, the Commission on Intergovernmental Relations-the Kestnbaum Commission-embellished the intellectual framework of cooperative federalism and laid out a policy agenda for promoting it. Since then, our intergovernmental system has evolved from a predominantly cooperative federal-state-local system to one characterized by corrosive opportunistic behavior, greater policy prescriptiveness, eroding institutional capacity for intergovernmental analysis, and shifting paradigms of public management. These trends threaten to undermine effective intergovernmental relations and management. Recent developments, however, offer some promise for building new institutions of intergovernmental analysis, more effective paradigms of intergovernmental public management, and greater horizontal cooperation."
10.2307_40469082	2009	"How do two world powers with starkly different governing systems share common accountability problems, and why? Does the cycle of administrative reform produce additional need for reforms that come full circle, eventually exacerbating problems without solution? Yongfei Zhao and B. Guy Peters of the University of Pittsburgh examine governance in the United States and China and point out that conflicts in government functions unique to each country result in strikingly similar accountability issues."
10.2307_977434	2000	"The conclusion of the Clinton Administration presents an opportune time to investigate the outcomes of the National Performance Review (NPR). Any such evaluation, however, is complicated by the nature of the objectives sought, many of which relate to subtle and elusive elements of organizational life: empowering employees, inducing a less risk-adverse culture, and enhancing the quality of service delivery. The strategy employed here as a means of gaining insight into such phenomena was to couple a broad review of government-wide survey results with an in-depth investigation into the impact of NPR on a single agency, the Social Security Administration. A conclusion is that many of the NPR's ""higher-order"" objectives have not been met on a systemic basis. While a variety of proximate explanations for this finding can be identified, a more fundamental explanation relates to a failure by the sponsors to adjust their strategy to account for basic differences between NPR and past reforms."
10.2307_25145605	2008	"Though the mainstream organizational literature has advanced in the last 20 years with the integration of transformational and distributed leadership theories, as well as genuine attempts at comprehensive models, the public sector literature has lagged, especially in utilizing large-scale empirical studies. This study takes advantage of a very large government data set to test the utility of one of the best known theories, the ""full range"" leadership theory of Bernard Bass. It addresses three important research questions: How inclusive is Bass's operational definition of leadership? How much of an impact do Bass's leadership competencies have on follower satisfaction? Finally, how important is transformational leadership compared to transactional leadership in government settings? The results indicate that Bass's broad definition of leadership comes quite close to capturing what federal employees perceive to be effective leadership. The relationship between good leadership in an organization and follower satisfaction is also presented as an important outcome in the federal government. Finally, both transactional and transformational leadership are perceived as important in the federal government, although transformational leadership is considered slightly more important even after shifting one important factor, individualized consideration, back to the transactional model."
10.2307_976648	1997	"In ""Democracy and Bureaucracy"" Meier argues that the bureaucracy problem in the United States is, in reality, a governance problem. Framed in this way, he argues the key problems are failures of electoral institutions rather than failures of bureaucracy. As a result, public administration needs to broaden its focus and include the study of electoral institutions as well as the study of bureaucracy. Effective governance is possible only if students of public administration return to their reformist roots and address both bureaucratic and electoral institutions. As a starting point in such a debate, Meier proposes a series of reforms for U. S. political institutions."
10.2307_4624694	2007	"The devastation caused by Hurricane Katrina and the subsequent failure of government agencies and public administrators elicited an unprecedented response by international nongovernmental organizations (INGOs) to a disaster in the United States. This paper focuses on why so many INGOs were compelled to provide humanitarian assistance and relief in the United States for the first time and the administrative barriers they faced while doing so. What does such a response reveal about administrative failures in the wake of Katrina, and what might the implications be for reconceptualizing roles for nonprofit and nongovernmental organizations in disaster relief? The authors answer these questions using data from interviews with INGO representatives, organizational press releases and Web sites, news articles, and official reports and documentation."
10.2307_27697832	2009	"We hypothesize that the structural characteristics (i.e., centralization versus decentralization) of government affect the availability of training in values and skills that are fundamental to democratization. We test our hypothesis in statistical models predicting anticorruption training and policy skills training, using a model of technical skills training for comparison. We find that centralized government structure significantly increases the odds of receiving both anticorruption training and policy skills training. In contrast, we find no statistical correlation between government structure and receipt of technical skills training. In light of these empirical results, we describe a theoretical paradox in civil service reform associated with democratization: While the end goal of such reform is decentralized government with local services and a professionalized civil service, reform itself may best supported by a centralized environment to achieve the democratic value and skills training needed to support transition to democracy."
10.2307_40468963	2009	"A premise of charter school initiatives has been that these schools have direct benefits for the students attending them and indirect benefits for other students by creating competition for traditional public schools to improve their performance. This study uses a two-pronged approach to assess whether California charter schools are having indirect effects on students in traditional public schools. First, we examine how traditional public school principals react to the introduction of charter schools. Second, we assess whether competition from nearby charters is affecting student achievement outcomes for students that remain in traditional public schools. The survey results show that traditional public school principals felt little competitive pressure from charters. Similarly, the student achievement analysis shows that charter competition was not improving the performance of traditional public schools. These results suggest that California charter schools are having little effect on the climate of traditional public schools."
10.2307_3109904	2002	"Studies of policy implementation have focused primarily on incremental policy change, yet policy change is sometimes implemented quickly and comprehensively. Such is the case with Michigan's recent implementation of a statewide Medicaid managed care initiative. This article analyzes Michigan's quick implementation and highlights the importance of political support, organizational change, and a supportive policy and administrative environment in affecting successful implementation. It also notes the price paid for quick implementation-namely, stakeholder dissatisfaction, mistakes, and lack of public involvement."
10.2307_3843947	2006	"Employing the metaphor of human sight, this essay advances a new vision for public administration. It is a departure from past visions in that it asks us to ""see"" the field from its own viewpoint rather than that of others. First, three common perspectives on public administration are critiqued as possessing a vision of the field that is not in accord with its core contributions to the democratic republic. Second, a new vision is advanced comprising three elements: a concept of government-based yet nongovernmental governance in which the contributions of administration are fully accounted for; a trajectory image of the administrative agency propelled by a strong sense of mission; and the notion that administrations highest purpose is to build the public trust that makes democracy possible."
10.2307_3843902	2006	"This essay is a theoretical exploration of a new budgetary system to cope with fiscal uncertainty and instability. It examines policies requiring positive year-end balances and infers that annual budget cycles lead to a mismatch between the budget cycle and the continuity of public service provision. The author considers a multiyear perspective on budgeting as a potential solution, with countercyclical fiscal reserves to help ensure stability during fluctuating economic conditions. By adopting budget stabilization funds and keeping sufficient reserves, states can better maintain trend-level public services during recessions. Panel data analysis provides empirical evidence that such funds helped stabilize state general expenditures during downturns. The adoption of countercyclical fiscal policy and budget stabilization funds is a step toward a longer-term perspective on budgeting, thus promoting fiscal stability over the economic cycle."
10.2307_3843942	2006	"The standard federal regulatory process in the United States involves notice and comment by government bureaus. This traditional agency model of public rulemaking faces difficulties in taking full advantage of the expertise of stakeholders, and it has been criticized as being slow and inflexible; therefore, it is not surprising that alternative institutional forms involving the delegation of rulemaking to stakeholders have appeared. Yet it is surprising that private rulemaking has been used to allocate valuable goods such as transplant organs. Why is private rulemaking used as an allocative institution of governance? The answer recognizes the advantages it offers in certain rapidly changing circumstances in which essential expertise inheres in the stakeholders, as well as the asymmetric political rewards involved in the allocation of highly valued goods, which create incentives for politicians to avoid blame by delegating substantive rulemaking authority to nongovernmental organizations."
10.2307_40469083	2009	"The Chinese context is in many ways fundamentally different from other countries where freedom of information laws and regulations are currently implemented. The authors, Suzanne Piotrowski, Yahong Zhang, and Weiwei Lin of Rutgers University ?? Newark, and Wenxuan Yu of Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, identify the primary issues surrounding implementation of Chinas new Open Government Information (OGI) regulations and compare the key concerns with those that have emerged in other contexts. The research included a survey of mid-and upper-level Chinese government bureaucrats. The authors compare their findings to an established international framework of freedom of information implementation. The essay concludes that while the Chinese context is unique, the key issues surrounding implementation of the OGI regulations mirror in many ways what is found in other countries."
10.2307_40469018	2009	"Professor Ali Farazmand's seminal article on ""Building Administrative Capacity for the Age of Rapid Globalization: A Modest Prescription for the Twenty-First Century"" is a powerful and comprehensive treatise on the nature and characteristics of governance and public administration??indeed, a manifesto for action. The content is rich and the scope is wide. The timely discussion offers operational concepts that can be used to analyze and remedy the economic and political ills that have resulted from many years of ideologically charged laissez-faire capitalism, including the current global credit crisis and financial meltdown (Friedman and Friedman 1990; Krugman 2007) that have affected governments and governance capacity worldwide."
10.2307_977533	2001	"What makes a public agency perform at a high level? Some agencies are doing extremely well in their environment and it may be because they are lucky enough to have access to plentiful resources, excellent management, and a supportive public. Unfortunately, cases such as these provide little prescriptive evidence for public managers looking to improve their own agency's performance. We apply a new quantitative technique (SWAT) to educational outcome data for 534 school districts in Texas and identify those districts doing extremely well given their fixed and often limited inputs. This approach is useful because the truly superior agencies are those that do more with less, and public managers who lead their organizations to high performance levels despite limited resources provide potential solutions to others."
10.2307_25145646	2008	"In response to Martha Joynt Kumar's essay on maximizing presidential transitions while minimizing hazards, this essay presents additional practical recommendations, framed within the context of the upcoming presidential transition."
10.2307_3542643	2005	"We use a new model of city-county consolidation to analyze 12 local government consolidation attempts during the last three decades. Using a rigorously designed comparative case study, we identify the critical variables that explain why some consolidations succeed and others fail. Arguments for consolidation typically fail when they focus on the increased equity to be gained from the redistribution of revenues from the suburbs to central cities. Traditional arguments that are based on increased efficiency are also unsuccessful. Instead, the essential element of a successful consolidation is a group of civic elites who define the economic development vision for the community, determine that the existing political structure is incapable of supporting and implementing that vision, and convince the voters that city-county consolidation is the key to economic development that will benefit the whole community, not just the elites."
10.2307_976886	1998	"This semi-autobiographical account of the author's experience with the American Society for Public Administration's (ASPA) Comparative Administration Group during the 1960s, and the subsequent evolution of his thinking, sheds light on the status and history of comparative public administration in America. In retrospect, instead of trying to export administrative practices that were not really appropriate in many countries of the post-imperial age, both scholars and practitioners would have done better abroad if they had paid more attention to the analysis of public administration in America, as viewed in a comparative perspective. Had they been able to do that, and if they had also learned more about the constraints and dynamics of politics and administration in the new successor states of the world, they could have been more successful overseas and, at the same time, they would have enhanced the ability of American scholars and practitioners to understand their own system of government."
10.2307_4096577	2006	"Collaboration is a necessary foundation for dealing with both natural and technological hazards and disasters and the consequences of terrorism. This analysis describes the structure of the American emergency management system, the charts development of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and identifies conflicts arising from the creation of the Department of Homeland Security and the attempt to impose a command and control system on a very collaborative organizational culture in a very collaborative sociopolitical and legal context. The importance of collaboration is stressed, and recommendations are offered on how to improve the amount and value of collaborative activities. New leadership strategies are recommended that derive their power from effective strategies and the transformational power of a compelling vision, rather than from hierarchy, rank, or standard operating procedures."
10.2307_977310	1997	"What is the impact of governmental quality improvement programs on service quality, productivity, and effectiveness? TQM processes often produce healthier organization climates and improved employee attitudes, but their effects on service delivery have gone largely unexamined to date. Using county-level data on highway maintenance activities, Theodore H. Poister and Richard H. Harris employ path analysis to model the impact of the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation's long-standing quality improvement efforts on highway maintenance work quality, labor productivity, and unmet needs."
10.2307_3542524	2005	"Over the last decade, at least 42 U.S. cities have elected to pursue sustainable cities programs to improve their livability. Some programs are broad, involving smart growth efforts, and others are narrowly targeted, including bicycle ridership and pesticide-reduction programs. A recurring theme in these cities is the role of public participation in shaping and implementing these programs. In cities where the sustainable cities idea first emerged in local grassroots organizations, such as Seattle, these programs owe their existence to public involvement. Other cities have taken a top-down approach, treating sustainability as a matter for experts rather than ordinary citizens. Civic engagement is manifest both in the development of the sustainability program and as an explicit goal of the sustainability program. This article examines the role of civic engagement in these programs and defines a research agenda by identifying hypotheses about the importance of public involvement in sustainable cities programs."
10.2307_976561	1998	"The American system of governance has a number of basic failures: organizational, analytical, executive, legislative, political, and judicial failures. Public managers can help correct these failures. But to do so, they have to exercise leadership. Indeed, because these failures are inherent, serious, and consequential, and because public managers are in a unique position to help correct them, public managers have an obligation to lead."
10.2307_25145598	2008	"Sean O'Keefe was administrator of NASA a little more than three years. In that eventful and turbulent period, he dealt with numerous issues. Appointed to cope with a huge cost overrun on the International Space Station, he was soon engulfed in the Columbia shuttle accident and its investigation. Subsequently, he engineered a presidential decision that NASA return to the moon and go eventually to Mars. He also sought to terminate the immensely popular Hubble Space Telescope. The Moon-Mars decision was O'Keefe's most important achievement, as that involving Hubble was his most controversial action. This essay tracks O'Keefe's role at NASA as a case study in leadership and change."
10.2307_976655	1997	"This paper examines the structure of bureaucratic decisions in state Medicaid programs. More specifically, the analysis tries to discern an underlying pattern in Medicaid optional service adoptions across the American states during the period from 1985 through 1994. These adoptions result from state-level administrative initiatives rather than federal or state legislative actions. The analysis shows that states differ in the extent to which they extend services into more controversial aspects of health care. And their willingness to do so follows a clear cumulative pattern: States initiate more controversial, limited services only after they have already adopted a full range of services that are widely acceptable to the public and governmental officials. This cumulative pattern in administrative decisions reveals a great deal about the nature of bureaucratic actions in state-level social welfare programs. This study also produces an empirical measure of bureaucratic policy outputs that can be used as an analytic variable in other research efforts."
10.2307_25145626	2008	"Many policy problems require governmental leaders to forge vast networks beyond their own hierarchical institutions. This essay explores the challenges of implementation in a networked institutional setting and incentives to induce coordination between agencies and promote quality implementation. It describes the national evaluation of the Assuring Better Child Health and Development program, a state-based program intended to increase and enhance the delivery of child development services for low-income children through the health care sector, using Medicaid as its primary vehicle. Using qualitative evaluation methods, the authors found that all states implemented programs that addressed their stated goals and made changes in Medicaid policies, regulations, or reimbursement mechanisms. The program catalyzed interagency cooperation and coordination. The authors conclude that even a modest level of external support and technical assistance can stimulate significant programmatic change and interorganizational linkages within public agencies to enhance provision of child development services."
10.2307_977592	2003	"This article reviews the mainstream leadership literature and its perennial debates and compares it to the public-sector (administrative) leadership literature. The mainstream leadership literature fully articulated the transformational models in the 1980s and began the serious work of integrating transactional and transformational types of leadership into comprehensive models in the 1990s. Many have considered this to be a major advance over the field's previous fragmentation and excessively narrow focus. This integration has not been reflected in the public-sector literature, in which the normative debates about what leaders should do has received most of the attention in the last decade. Although many types of leadership in the public sector have been discussed extensively, such as leadership by those in policy positions and working in community settings, administrative leadership within organizations has received scant attention and would benefit from a research agenda linking explicit and well-articulated models with concrete data in public-sector settings."
10.2307_25145708	2008	"This article adopts an organizational echelon approach to the study of red tape in public organizations and argues that the nature and extent of red tape will vary at different levels of the organizational hierarchy. These propositions are tested with a multiple-informant survey using a lagged model. The empirical results across the three organizational echelons sampled indicate modest variations in the levels of perceived red tape and major variations in its determinants. Results from the more senior managers uphold prior research findings and hypotheses on the determinants of red tape. This is not surprising because earlier studies typically sampled senior executives. Yet the lower down the organizational hierarchy one travels, the more red tape officials perceive and the more multifaceted the findings on determinants become. The authors conclude that prior empirical work is likely to have underestimated the extent of red tape in public organizations, and oversimplified its determinants. The implications for theory and practice are discussed."
10.2307_3110325	2002	"During its nine years of existence, AmeriCorps has had a tremendous impact on its volunteers and the communities it serves. Despite concerns expressed by the Republican congressional leadership, the Corporation for National and Community Service-the federally funded administrative organization that directs AmeriCorps programs at the national level-has made clear its intention to operate in a nonpartisan, politically neutral manner. A study of AmeriCorps programs in four western states finds the corporation is accomplishing its ""neutrality"" objective and is rebuilding a sense of civic-mindedness in a manner that lacks gender or racial bias-a critical element in reestablishing a strong choral society-all the while properly respecting diversity."
10.2307_25145700	2008	"The reputation of a president can be enhanced or diminished depending on the quality of federal management. This transition memorandum draws on the insights of the fellows of the National Academy of Public Administration. It urges the next president to (1) set a tone and strengthen organizational infrastructure to promote effective management across government, (2) create an office to monitor potential major risks and ensure adequate response, and (3) pass on to his successor more capable government than he found. Only then can the incoming administration form the basis for short-term success and longer-term effectiveness to implement the president's policy agenda."
10.2307_4624690	2007	"In this study, nonprofit involvement in cross-sector collaborative efforts for post-Katrina and Rita relief, recovery, and rebuilding are examined. Using Bryson, Crosby, and Stone's model as a framework, the collaborative and intermediary roles played by nonprofits in three affected areas, New Orleans, southwest Louisiana, and central Texas, are analyzed. Extensions of the model are introduced to include aspects of organizational capacity and individual and prosocial behaviors resultant of cross-sector collaboration during extreme events. Implications of the findings for nonprofit practice and policy as well as future research in emergency management are discussed."
10.2307_4096604	2006	"Feminist scholars of public administration have critiqued the dominance of masculine imagery in public administration theory and practice. However, public service motivation is one area of public administration discourse that contains both feminine and masculine imagery. Focusing on Perry's multidimensional public service motivation scale, the authors borrow from a range of social science literatures to contend that compassion is a feminine dimension of public service motivation, whereas attraction to policy making and commitment to public service are masculine dimensions. Data from a survey of public managers in state health and human service agencies reveal that women score higher on Perry s compassion subscale but also on attraction to policy making. No statistically significant gender differences were found on commitment to public service."
10.2307_25145580	2008	"More than five decades have passed since Charles Tiebout wrote his seminal 1956 paper, often cited as the classic apologetic for locally based systems of metropolitan governance. This essay traces the impact of Tiebout's work and subsequent scholarship in public choice, identifying important lessons and lingering issues. Although public choice has demonstrated that polycentric systems are adept and flexible in producing and providing municipal services and a variety of interlocal agreements, the presence of municipal boundaries gives rise to a host of spillover problems, such as urban sprawl and segregation. These spillovers are particularly nefarious because, unlike the natural cooperation that seems to occur in service provision, municipalities tend to assert narrow self-interest in the face of these types of externalities. The essay proposes that, commensurate with the growing salience of equity among the pillars of public administration, interjurisdictional spillovers and their attendant equity impacts will be the central challenge for thinkers studying metropolitan governance in the 21st century."
10.2307_977575	1998	"Empirical studies suggest that local service contracting leads to higher efficiency, which seems to support public choice arguments on the vices of municipal monopoly and virtues of competition. A methodological critique of the evidence shows that these conclusions are not valid. Major deficiencies of the statistical tests include the omission of relevant control variables and the absence of measures of competition. Implications for the theory and practice of public administration are identified."
10.2307_977518	2003	"This article examines the political, psychological, and moral challenges of senior public service in the executive office. The study uses memoirs published by members of the Clinton administration. The memoirs discuss the consistent background conditions of senior public service as the personality of the chief executive, the vagaries of election cycles, the tension between staff and agency executives, and the role of the media. Senior executives adopt a number of stances to address the tension between the realities of public service and the ideals they bring. The memoirs suggest several stances, such as politics as original sin, seduction, hard work and compromise, and game. The memoirs demonstrate the high cumulative cost that public service exacts on the health and personal lives of senior officials. Finally, the study reveals a number of consistent themes about how senior appointed public officials can navigate the dilemmas and challenges of senior public service at all levels of government."
10.2307_4624637	2007	"Accurately predicting revenue growth is nearly impossible. Predicting the peaks and valleys of the business cycle is even more hopeless. This matters because tax revenues are largely driven by economic growth. Volatile, unpredictable revenue growth causes all sorts of unpleasant responses on the part of governments, most commonly manic-depressive patterns of spending and taxing. Fortunately, modern financial economics gives us a set of tools that can be used to manage volatility. This article shows how such tools can be used to inform fiscal decision making. The focus here is state governments, but the analysis applies to all jurisdictions that face hard budget constraints and therefore must balance spending increases against revenue growth."
10.2307_4624667	2007	"In this article, the authors discuss ""whole-of-government"" initiatives as a reaction to the negative effects of New Public Management reforms such as structural devolution, ""single-purpose organizations,"" and performance management but also as a reaction to a more insecure world. The authors examine what is meant by a ""whole-of government"" approach and explore how this concept might be interpreted in analytical terms. The structural approach is contrasted with a cultural perspective and a myth-based perspective. Finally, results, experiences, and lessons from the whole-of-government movement are discussed."
10.2307_40469034	2009	"Convergence between Woodrow Wilson's and Max Weber's thought, as well as their differences with regard to the politics??administration dichotomy, can be ascribed to the Hegelian tradition of public administrative theory. On the one hand, Wilson was strongly influenced by Georg W. F. Hegel. On the other hand, there is an empirical connection between Hegeland Weber. Both shared a consciousness of the German bureaucratic tradition based on Hegel's Philosophy of Right. These insights have important methodological and theoretical implications for the contemporary comparative study of public administration."
10.2307_40469030	2009	"How do public organizations learn? The organizational learning literature suggests distinct cultural and structural routes to learning. However, such categorizations oversimplify. Leaders seeking to foster learning should recognize that most relevant organizational variables combine structural and cultural aspects, which are mutually dependent on one another. The strongest influences are the existence of work groups that are purpose driven and incorporate the views of all members, including dissenting views. Such learning forums can be fostered through formal requirements, but they need appropriate cultural characteristics to succeed. Mission orientation, decision authority, information systems, and resource adequacy are also positively related to improved organizational learning."
10.2307_4624597	2007	"Treating all respondents to citizen satisfaction surveys as ""customers"" risks misinterpreting the findings and misguiding managerial decision making. Citizen evaluations of the quality of public services are likely to vary based on whether citizens have a direct or indirect relationship to the service. Furthermore, citizens are likely to rate services differently based on whether they consume the services as a result of coercion or choice, although the quality of the interaction shapes the impact of the type of interaction. Based on a series of empirical analyses, this paper demonstrates that recipients who have superior-quality interactions with providers are likely to report high ratings for elective services, whereas citizens who have poor-quality interactions are likely to report low ratings for coercive services. In this way, the quality of the interaction influences citizens' predispositions to rate services high or low based on whether they consume the service by choice or coercion."
10.2307_40468971	2009	"Federalism jurisprudence shapes the powers that public administrators have to achieve policy priorities. Federalism, however, is neither static nor simplistic as a concept, and a proper understanding of the environment in which public administrators work rests on a careful analysis of U.S. Supreme Court decisions. The authors review claims that a 2005 decision, Gonzales v. Raich, terminated a federalism revolution that had been ushered in a decade earlier. Does Raich in fact mark the end of the Supreme Court s federalism doctrine? Analysis of this question clarifies whether the past and current Court has articulated any direction touching on administrators' powers at both the national and state levels. The authors argue that before the federalism revolution is declared dead or alive, public administration can better understand the realities of the Supreme Courts doctrinal boundaries by examining a more detailed analysis of jurisprudence for what is says about the foundations of federalism such as the commerce clause, Fourteenth Amendment, Tenth Amendment, Eleventh Amendment, spending clause, and statutory interpretation issues."
10.2307_3110102	2003	"Like oysters on the half shell, some things are better when they're raw. In evaluating the performance of organizations and providing guidance for improving performance, however, raw performance measures, such as test scores or success rates, are often inferior to performance measures adjusted for client and environmental characteristics, or adjusted performance measures (APMs). Using examples from a variety of public services and data on public schools in Georgia, we compare the performance data generated by raw scores and by APMs. We conclude with guidance for constructing and using adjusted performance measures."
10.2307_4624697	2007	"Using network power bases and cognitive accuracy concepts, this study examines two local emergency management network changes. The authors review five power bases-structural-based, resource-based, actor-based, cognitive-based, and political-based power-to explore the perceived power of network actors. Three research propositions are proposed with respect to the relationship between the network power bases and the cognitive accuracy of network participants. The authors find that political-based power is strongly correlated with perceived power. The article concludes with future research questions and directions for advancing current scholarship on emergency management networks."
10.2307_3542554	2005	"All levels of government have begun to pursue results-based reforms, which assume that managers will use performance information to make better decisions. However, reforms have neglected the insights of a large and relevant literature on organizational learning. This article revisits this literature, treating results-based reform as an organizational learning mechanism and a deliberate structural effort to induce learning. From an organizational learning perspective, most results-based reforms target narrow process improvement (single-loop learning) rather than a broad understanding of policy choices and effectiveness (double-loop learning), even though the latter is more critical for long-term organizational success. Case evidence from state governments illustrates single- and double-loop learning and the importance of two frequently neglected aspects of organizational learning: learning forums-routines where performance information is deliberately examined-and the role of organizational culture in enabling or limiting learning."
10.2307_25145627	2008	"This essay develops a theory of how institutions can work through the web of social relationships that exist in a place rather than through formal, bureaucratic lines of authority. In contrast to models that characterize institutions as organizational structures, roles, and patterns of exchange, this model depicts institutions as constituted primarily through the active working and reworking of relationships. Rather than adopt the network literature's focus on the overall pattern of relationships and exchanges carried out between policy actors, the author focuses directly on the nature of the relationships themselves and portrays the institution as the playing out of these relationships, employing Carol Gilligan's notion of care. The model of care is used to analyze the evolution, unraveling, and restoration of resource management systems on the Turtle Islands in Southeast Asia. The model provides lessons for institution building, especially for community-centered governance."
10.2307_3110278	2002	"As President Bush plans to expand ""Charitable Choice,"" civil libertarians worry that the legislation is part of a new assault on separation of church and state. Religious Right activists demand assurances that funds will not flow to groups like the Nation of Islam or Scientologists. African American pastors in urban areas-arguably the main targets of the initiative-are concerned that ""government shekels"" will be accompanied by ""government shackles,"" that the costs and regulatory burdens accompanying collaborations with government will divert resources from client services and mute their prophetic voice. Caught in the middle are public managers, who must make the legislation work in the face of significant administrative challenges. Those challenges occur in three areas: contracting procedures, contract administration, and evaluation. In each of these categories, political realities and constitutional constraints will significantly complicate the manager's job."
10.2307_27697853	2009	"Ensuring that a community is prepared to deal with a disaster is among the many tasks public managers are charged with addressing. Disaster preparedness and response requires adherence to standard planning practices, yet disasters are typically unpredictable. Dealing with disasters, therefore, requires a blend of traditional management skills and improvisation. Furthermore, like other aspects of administrative leadership, the top administrator must blend initiation and responsiveness in interactions with elected officials and a careful delineation of responsibility in handling actual emergencies. This article discusses how local administrators assess risk and balance preparedness needs within a universe of daily operational needs. Managing environmental risk is also explored from a political and legal context."
10.2307_40468962	2009	"The possibility of an influenza pandemic occurring within the next two decades is very real; the role of local governments in comprehensive preparation for this global threat is crucial. The federal government has provided broad guidelines for state and local officials who are ultimately responsible for emergency response and lifesaving services, vaccination and antiviral use, and the provision of other critical support. Much of this influenza pandemic preparedness has occurred under conditions of uncertainty, and these government actions may have unprecedented legal and ethical implications. This study evaluates the pandemic influenza policies of eight large U. S. cities to determine how Department of Health and Human Services recommendations with ethical and legal implications have been addressed. The authors find that several important aspects of these guidelines are vague in many plans, and input from key stakeholders is inadequate."
10.2307_25145647	2008	"This work examines attitudes about ethics in American government during the turbulent time from the end of the past century to the beginning of the new. Using data from a national survey, the authors explore views toward ethics in society and integrity in public agencies, with an emphasis on the code of ethics of the American Society for Public Administration. The results not only reveal considerable continuity over the years but also suggest that individual managers are increasingly empowered, that agencies are affecting positive change, and that the ASPA code may be influencing management practices. The implications of the findings for ASPA ethics initiatives are considered."
10.2307_40469067	2009	What forces shape the recent growth and evolution of higher education in China? Has it been a means of attaining China's national goals domestically and abroad? This essay looks at some of the forces that influence current academic growth. A search for balance between institutional survival and academic excellence as well as salient differences between public policy training in China and the United States are highlighted.
10.2307_27697914	2009	"Contracting out has become a popular strategy in public service delivery, but it remains uncertain whether and how government can ensure contracting performance. As a result, a growing literature emphasizes the importance of governments' contracting capacities. Yet very few studies have empirically assessed how contracting capacities relate to contracting performance. This article identifies four types of contracting capacities in terms of agenda setting, contract formulation, contract implementation, and contract evaluation, relating them to three performance dimensions including cost, efficiency, and quality. Drawing from a manager survey from Taiwan, the article shows that the relationships between the capacities and the performance indicators are not always straightforward or linear, and the relationships are complicated by the role of time. The results suggest that contracting capacities have both benefits and costs, and the solutions rooted in the economics theory should not be taken beyond their appropriate boundaries."
10.2307_977560	1998	"The Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA) responded to many of the recommendations for change in public management that have emerged over the years but has evoked incredibly divergent views as it has begun to be implemented. While some aspects of the perceived problems are attributable to the background of the legislation (e. g., its purposes and requirements), the initial instructions for implementation also contributed to the confusion. One cannot understand the reaction to GPRA, however, without an understanding of the larger context. This environment includes the reality of the budget and budget decision making, the context of fragmentation, decentralization, and devolution, the pressures from living in an era of ideology and divided government, skepticism about federal collection of information, problems dealing with the concepts of customers and stakeholders, and what I call crowded management space (competing management requirements.) The early stages of implementation suggest that there are problems in the process of developing strategies, defining goals and performance measures, dealing with data, determining the level of analysis, and assigning responsibility for the implementation. While it is very early to give a definitive assessment of the GPRA process, the optimism that surrounded the legislation is not as strong as it was several years ago when the legislation was enacted. Some agencies within the federal establishment may be using the requirements to achieve internal management agendas, but the complexity of the institutions of American governance works against the accomplishment of the rational goals of the legislation."
10.2307_25145570	2008	"The U.S. government-science relationship, which helped win World War II, put a man on the moon, unravel the human genome, and nurture economic growth, is troubled. Money is one reason. However, far more than funding, the tensions between government and science are about politics and policy management. Many scientists and their allies argue that the Bush administration has crossed the line separating appropriate control of information from political interference. That is, there has been a ""politicization of science."" This essay examines the current debate about politicization in historical context; discusses the tensions among scientists, politicians, and administrators; and suggests possible ways to strengthen the government-science partnership in the future."
10.2307_4624661	2007	"Personnel management is vitally important to the maintenance and preservation of the administrative state and its democratic institutions. This reaction critically examines the personnel recommendations made by Floyd W. Reeves and Paul T. David in their study Personnel Administration in the Federal Service. It questions the degree to which there is a coherent set of political and constitutional expectations marking the progress of personnel policy that might enable us to forecast the future, both theoretically and practically. The authors highlight how and why the field should pay greater attention to the political ends that our personnel theories serve."
10.2307_3110297	1999	"Can corruption be combatted? Yes, but only under certain circumstances! That appears to be the experience of Asian countries where corruption is ubiquitous with the exception of Singapore-a country that proved to be the only success story with a strong political leadership and better pay scales. Can this experience be replicated?"
10.2307_27697906	2009	"History is institutional memory writ large. One looks at economic history to see what problems recur, what causes them to recur, what solutions have worked best in the past, and which interventions have made the problems worse. The authors argue that a moderately complex interaction between the workings of the financial sector, the way in which the political system is organized, and the administration of regulation makes perfect regulation of the financial sector extremely unlikely. Many of these problems arise as a result of conflicting incentives for those participating in and regulating the financial field. The authors find that some proposed solutions have improved matters but have costs, and that some proposed solutions have actually worsened problems in the financial sector."
10.2307_3110298	1999	"Has the sanguine public policy of preference turned out to be a political soccer game? Has it been a victim of ideological fights? Can it undo the past? In India, it has become a tool of competitive populism. In the United States, it has been subjected to the ideological positioning of the Supreme Court and with all types of backlash, the policy appears to be in the doldrums. In South Africa, it is turned on its head with the majority enjoying preference resulting in the flight of the minority ""white tribe."" Given all the tribulations, can altruism be rescued from politics?"
10.2307_4624580	2007	"This article assesses Russia's post-Soviet efforts to reform its public service in order to meet the challenges of social and economic transition and describes both obstacles to the creation of a modern public service and efforts to overcome them. First, the authors provide a snapshot of the public service in Russia since 1991. Second, they describe aspects of the Soviet legacy that have impeded efforts to modernize the public service. Third, they identify some of the traumas of transition experienced in the 1990s that have circumscribed efforts at reform. Finally, the authors identify gaps between the legislation enacted by the Duma and the limited implementation of that legislation to date. The article concludes with an assessment of the current status of public service reform in Russia."
10.2307_4624563	2007	"This study empirically assesses the argument that public participation enhances public trust. A model was constructed to include five intermediate factors that might link participation and trust: consensus building, ethical behaviors, accountability practices, service competence, and managerial competence. As expected, participation does explain a significant amount of public trust. However, using path analysis, only two intermediate factors-ethical behaviors and service competence-were found to significantly contribute to trust. Even successful consensus-building activities are not likely to enhance trust unless administrative performance improves. These results indicate that if increasing public trust is the primary goal, then the primary focus should be on administrative integrity and performance results."
10.2307_3843922	2006	"How might we think about democratic governance? This paper distinguishes between system governance and radical democracy. System governance borrows the language of radical democracy while missing its spirit. It advocates increased participation through networks because new institutionalists suggest networks are an efficient means of service delivery. It advocates increased consultation to build consensus because communitarians suggest consensus is needed for effective political institutions. System governance is, then, a top-down discourse based on the alleged expertise of social scientists. Radical democrats concentrate instead on the self-government of citizens. Instead of the incorporation of established groups in networks, they promote a pluralism within which aspects of governance are handed over to associations in civil society. And instead of consultation prior to decision making, they promote a dialogue in which citizens play an active role in making and implementing public policy."
10.2307_27697828	2009	"Despite a long and storied history, patronage and the functions it plays in American politics and public administration are still very much a mystery. This paper examines how patronage has been used and understood in American political science and public administration. The author calls for a reexamination of the concept based on developments found in the field of anthropology. In an effort to generate future scholarship, the author introduces a typology of patronage styles based on this reexamination."
10.2307_977618	2001	"This article reports the results of a major survey that was distributed to the members of the International Personnel Management Association and the Section on Personnel and Labor Relations of the American Society for Public Administration. The intent of the survey was twofold: to gauge the respondents' perspectives on the relative importance of various personnel techniques, activities, and values, and to assess their projections concerning the changes that will occur during the next decade. In addition to providing an interesting snapshot of the perceived state of modernization within public-sector human resource management, the results reflect a considerable degree of agreement concerning the expected direction of further changes. Themes arising from the reinvention movement, as well as the technological revolution, dominate the response patterns. The implications of these perceived alterations in the field of human resource management are discussed, and potential problem areas are identified."
10.2307_40469084	2009	"As one of the fastest growing economies in the world, many wonder what kind of international behavior an increasingly powerful China will demonstrate in the future. Will it be a responsible state on the world stage? The article aims to understand Chinese foreign policy making from a comparative perspective. By using the neoclassical realist approach, key features of Chinese foreign policy as well as possible future alternatives for its implementation are outlined. The essay concludes that significant changes in Chinese foreign policy in recent years are remarkably similar to those of other major powers."
10.2307_25145629	2008	"Alasdair Roberts's recent book The Collapse of Fortress Bush: The Crisis of Authority in American Government is an appraisal of the George W. Bush administration's response to the 9/11 attacks and its management of the global war on terrorism. This war, Roberts argues, is a neoliberal war designed to accommodate assumptions about the boundaries of governmental action that became prevalent after Ronald Reagan's election to the presidency in 1980. Concerns about the renaissance of the ""imperial presidency"" are simplistic and misplaced, Roberts proposes, because they largely ignore how executive authority in the United States has been weakened by political, economic, and institutional forces. President Bush's actions after 9/11 reflect the limitations of his power. His White House was unable to impose significant burdens on citizens or the economy, felt forced to expand power surreptitiously, and chose to act militarily because the armed services enjoyed a level of legitimacy that was absent from the rest of government."
10.2307_3542660	2006	"The case study reported here challenges conventional wisdom about the feasibility of implementing responsibility budgeting and accounting practices in U.S. government. A variant of this practice took root and operated effectively in a large federal agency-the Air Force Materiel Command-during the period of study. Contrary to conventional wisdom, implementing a meaningful form of responsibility budgeting and accounting does not require changes in public management policies or systemic institutional reform. However, the evidence shows that instituting practices of responsibility budgeting and accounting may require considerable administrative ingenuity in adapting the generic practice to the situation at hand."
10.2307_977519	2003	"In an attempt to reap the purported benefits that ""knowledge workers"" bring to organizations, many police departments have shifted to a community problem-oriented policing philosophy. Rather than focusing on enforcement and incarceration, this philosophy is based on the dissemination of information to promote a proactive, preventative approach to reduce crime and disorder. In keeping with much of the contemporary literature on the ""learning organization"" (sometimes called the ""knowledge organization""), police departments hope to deter crime through the knowledge benefits that derive from information and its associated technologies. With goals to stimulate productivity, performance, and effectiveness, police departments across the country are employing information technology to turn police officers into problem solvers and to leverage their intellectual capital to preempt crime and neighborhood deterioration. Many public and private organizations are striving to change their operations toward this same concept of the knowledge worker. Information technology is often touted as a vehicle for capturing, tracking, sorting, and providing information to advance knowledge, thus leading to improvements in service-delivery efforts. Based on an extensive study of police departments that have attempted to implement a knowledge-worker paradigm (supported by information technology initiatives), this research explores the feasibility, effectiveness, and limitations of information and technology in promoting the learning organization in the public sector."
10.2307_25145600	2008	"The management literature argues that legislative involvement is important to the implementation of performance management reform, but it does not specify how legislatures should be engaged or how different legislative organizational arrangements affect reform. This article blends theories of management and legislative professionalism to better understand the influence of legislatures on the implementation of management reform. Drawing on data from several surveys, it examines the influence of legislative organization on the managerial use of performance measures. The findings suggest that citizen legislatures are associated with better administrative practices than professional legislatures and that the quality of legislative involvement may be more important than its quantity."
10.2307_3843923	2006	"Citizen participation in government budgeting processes is a topic that has received attention for many decades. Despite prescriptive exhortations to cities, research in this area has significant limitations. We identify four elements that are believed to influence the participation process. The variables within each element have received attention in the empirical literature, but no systematic effort has been made to uncover interaction effects and extend theory to make it more robust. We consider the weaknesses of our knowledge, suggest an impact model of citizen participation in budgeting, and identify hypotheses that may be tested in future research."
10.2307_3542608	2004	"Do states act as laboratories for reform? Are state administrative agencies likely to adopt policy innovations? This study analyzes the adoption of environmental policy innovations by state administrative agencies in the area of hazardous waste regulation. Four explanations are developed to explain the factors that affect innovation adoption: the severity of the problem, the importance of institutional factors, the role played by interest groups, and contextual factors. Institutional factors, such as state wealth and administrative professionalism, are important determinants of innovation adoption. State agencies are also likely to adopt innovations to deal with problems created by hazardous waste contamination. In addition, state environmental managers are not directly influenced by interest groups, and the inclusion of all stakeholders is likely to lead to greater support for new policy initiatives. Implications for practitioners are drawn based on the study's findings."
10.2307_3542466	2003	"The public administration community needs to focus more attention on how values can be integrated into the structures, processes, and systems of public organizations. In particular, greater emphasis should be placed on the values statement as the central component of a values regime. This article examines the content and format of values statements in four Westminster-style governments, initiatives to make values a pervasive influence in public-service operations, and learning points for other countries. Each government's values statement should capture the essence of public service. Leaders must serve as both exemplary models of values-based behavior and skillful practitioners of the art of values management. A values statement expressing values that are shared at all organizational levels-combined with the dispersal of leadership roles throughout the organization-provides an especially strong foundation for integrating values into public service."
10.2307_40469077	2009	"How has reform changed Chinese and American civil service systems in light of Chinas landmark reform in 1993 by contrast to the aftermath of the U.S. Civil Service Act of 1883? While there are significant differences, remarkable administrative and political similarities also emerge. Particularly salient is the role of educational systems in the civil service development of both countries. Surprisingly, this comparative analysis finds a common struggle to balance professional expertise with political accountability and control. King Kwun Tsao of the Chinese University of Hong Kong and John Abbott Worthley of Seton Hall University argue that further comparative research is essential to hone an improved understanding of China specifically as well as civil service systems generally."
10.2307_25145705	2008	"No civilian government agency in the United States has received as much attention from authors as the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Much of the early writing consisted of laudatory pieces that parroted the output of the agency's extensive public relations apparatus. This was followed by a reactive era of critical literature following the Watergate scandal and the death of J. Edgar Hoover. This article surveys the key literature on this controversial agency, including both perspectives and insider memoirs, Hoover biographies, and recent scholarly works."
10.2307_40469036	2009	"This year marks the sixty-fifth anniversary of the D-Day invasion, when Allied forces crossed the English Channel and established beachheads along a 50-mile stretch of the Normandy coast in northern France. Troops overcame stiff resistance and systematically moved inland, liberating Northern Europe and forcing the surrender of Germany and the end of World War II in that part of the world. The D-Day invasion took place on June 6, 1944, but its planning began more than two years earlier. This case studies the strategic planning that led up to the invasion. The Operations Division of the War Department General Staff, formerly known as the War Plans Division, was the principal staff agency of the U.S. Army high command during World War II. The story focuses on the Operations Division's role in formulating a strategic plan for ending the war as well as Operation BOLERO??the American military troop buildup in Great Britain that preceded the cross-channel invasion. By reprinting this case from the original U.S. Army historical record, PAR pays tribute to the brave men and women who planned and executed this bold maneuver, many of whom paid the ultimate price to achieve victory and restore freedom. Popularized as the ""Greatest Generation,"" they were ordinary people who answered the call of public service with extraordinary bravery and sacrifice. Members of the modern-day public administration community proudly stand on their shoulders. This chapter-length excerpt is taken from Ray S. Cline, Washington Command Post: The Operations Division (Washington, DC: Office of the Chief of Military History, Department of the Army, 1951), chapter IX, ""Case History: Drafting the BOLERO Plan,"" pp. 143-63."
10.2307_976961	1997	"This article investigates some of the human dimensions of the Total Quality Management movement (TQM), discussing its costs along with its potential benefits. It argues that the human costs of TQM are often substantial and may under certain circumstances be largely unavoidable. Indeed, it argues that the human costs of TQM are a direct consequence of middle managers' egos and fears, employee motivations, trivial employee participation, and the coercive nature of team structures. The article acknowledges TQM's potential benefits but admonishes its adherents not to ignore its potential costs."
10.2307_4624570	2007	"In this reply to Catlaw and Chapman's commentary, Dr. Page acknowledges that attention to New Public Management theory is all well and good, but it should not come at the expense of field observation of the associated phenomena."
10.2307_3542535	2004	"Public-sector organizations tend to be more racially and ethnically diverse than private-sector organizations, leading to the challenge of enhancing heterogeneous work group effectiveness. Recent work suggests that a group's ""diversity perspective,"" or set of beliefs about the role of cultural diversity, moderates diverse group performance. One perspective, the integration and learning perspective, argues that heterogeneous groups function better when they believe that cultural identities can be tapped as sources of new ideas and experiences about work. However, simply holding the integration and learning perspective may not be sufficient. Research on general group learning has shown that it requires particular behaviors and cognitive frames. This article integrates recent work on diversity perspectives with long-standing research on team learning to propose a conceptual model of learning in culturally diverse groups. It suggests that both the integration and learning perspective and more generic learning frames and skills must be present."
10.2307_3843925	2006	"Two recent examinations of management practices in three federal departments provide contemporary evidence of the need to incorporate procedures like those of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in the public sector. Although each department established what appeared to be well-designed internal controls, all lacked sufficient monitoring and assessment of the efficacy of those controls. By requiring senior management to attest to the strength of their control mechanisms, as required by the newly revised OMB Circular A-123, the quality of this monitoring should improve. Findings from a recent study of private-sector implementation of these reforms are described, along with suggestions for public administration research and practice at all levels of government."
10.2307_976694	1997	"How did career executives think influence was distributed in their agencies during the Reagan administration? Who would top bureaucrats have preferred to exercise influence? Which actors did career executives believe had too much influence and which too little? This article investigates the attitudes of a sample of career members of the senior executive service regarding these questions. The dominant view of presidential-bureaucratic relations in the public administration literature emphasizes the influence exercised by bureaucrats, key members of Congress, and representatives of interest groups at the expense of hierarchical guidance by agents of the president. The findings reported here suggest that top bureaucrats (1) thought that political appointees were very influential in their agencies and, (2) wanted more influence to be exercised by key political executives. The Reagan team's administrative strategy was apparently successful in gaining the support of top members of the higher civil service."
10.2307_25145727	2008	"Executive leadership in state government is examined at two levels, both from the perspectives of the heads of state administrative agencies responding to mail question surveys in 1994, 1998, and 2004. At one level, the status and strength of the governor in controlling and leading the executive branch are assessed. At the second (agency) level, state executives (and their agencies) are assessed on four criteria that are connected, directly or indirectly, with the aims of the Winter Commission: leadership, responsiveness, reforms (at the agency level), and performance (through contracting). State administration generally reflects a balance between continuity and change, with more of the former at the gubernatorial (and legislative) level, and more of the latter at the state agency level."
10.2307_3542626	2004	"It is widely argued that increased community participation in government decision making produces many important benefits. Dissent is rare: It is difficult to envision anything but positive outcomes from citizens joining the policy process, collaborating with others and reaching consensus to bring about positive social and environmental change. This article, motivated by contextual problems encountered in a participatory watershed management initiative, reviews the citizen-participation literature and analyzes key considerations in determining whether community participation is an effective policy-making tool. We list conditions under which community participation may be costly and ineffective and when it can thrive and produce the greatest gains in effective citizen governance. From the detritus of an unsuccessful citizen-participation effort, we arrive at a more informed approach to guide policy makers in choosing a decision-making process that is appropriate for a community's particular needs."
10.2307_3843900	2006	"This article argues that the concept of prudence can provide valuable insights into the problems of the New Public Management. Prudence, or practical wisdom, is the ability to make sound decisions under complex, ever-changeable conditions. Old-style bureaucracy severely limited the discretion of most administrators but preserved a site of true prudential judgment at the peak where discreet ""mandarins"" policed the boundary between politics and administration. The reforms that inaugurated New Public Management dismantled this site of prudence while simultaneously attempting, in effect, to disperse prudential judgment and action throughout the service. Though raising the problem of prudence, these reforms misconceived it as the problem of how to balance new freedoms with new controls to prevent abuse or folly. This essay argues that the introduction of market mechanisms, risk-management and cost-benefit techniques, ethics training, performance accountability, and calls to leadership were destined to fail because they misapprehended the problem of prudence."
10.2307_3110114	1999	"The past several decades have brought significant changes to county governments in the United States as these jurisdictions assume an increasing share of urban services and opt for more modern forms of government. This article focuses on the policy consequences of the change from the traditional form of commission government to either the elected executive or appointed administrator form. Using an interrupted pooled time-series design with 10 reorganized counties and 10 matched jurisdictions, the analysis confirms the null hypothesis. Changes in form of government have virtually no effect on rates of change in county fiscal behavior."
10.2307_27697862	2009	"There is high interest in economic development efforts involving cooperation or collaboration among metropolitan jurisdictions. To determine why some local governments engage in cooperative agreements while others do not, this paper investigates transaction obstacles, including bargaining, information, agency, enforcement, and division problems. The authors then advance an institutional collective action explanation for intergovernmental cooperation, focusing on the conditions under which these transactions costs are low. This work anticipates that the costs associated with interlocal cooperation are influenced by the demographic characteristics of communities, local political institutions, and the nature of regional government networks. Empirical analysis based on a national survey of local development officials provides support for several predictions from this model and identifies policy variables that, in turn, increase the prospects for cooperation, specifically through the development of informal policy networks."
10.2307_4624682	2007	"Louisiana's history of colorful politics and corruption in government is legendary, and within Louisiana, it is something celebrated-or at least warmly embraced-as part of the cultural richness of the state. An oft-repeated phrase is that Louisiana is no more corrupt than any place else, it's just that Louisianans are proud of it. Though such sentiment is certainly not true of everyone in Louisiana, it is a quality that permeates discussions of federal financial assistance to the state in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina and helps explain the widespread misuse of assistance funds. Yet beyond concern for the loss of dollars are the very real and tragic consequences for the citizens who were most affected by Hurricane Katrina-who have received but a trickle of the flood of money that has poured into the state. For these people, who remain without adequate shelter, resources, educational opportunities, health care, and support networks, the recovery progress has remained basically unchanged over the last two years. An overview of the ethical culture of Louisiana and reflections on how that culture contributed to and exacerbated administrative failure in the wake of Katrina is presented here."
10.2307_4624582	2007	"The events of 9/11 have influenced policy making in public administration. The Homeland Security Act of 2002, which created the Department of Homeland Security, contained language that empowered the secretary of homeland security and the director of the Office of Personnel Management to establish a personnel management system outside the normal provisions of the federal civil service. Why did civil service reform succeed as part of this legislation when previous attempts at large-scale reform had failed? A case analysis of the enactment of civil service reform in the Homeland Security Act points to theories of policy emergence and certain models of presidential and congressional policy making. In this case, civil service reform became associated with national security instead of management reform. An assessment of the rhetorical arguments used to frame this policy image offers a powerful explanation for the adoption of the personnel management reforms in the Homeland Security Act. This case has implications for understanding how policy makers might approach future management reform agendas."
10.2307_977508	2001	"This article explores the political influence of government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs). Using Congress's overhaul of the regulatory infrastructure for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as a case study, the article presents two principal findings: (1) The characteristics that distinguish government-sponsored enterprises from traditional government agencies and private companies endow Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac with unique political resources; and (2) the alignment of interest groups around Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac is subject to strategic manipulation by the GSEs. A triangular model of this alignment is proposed and employed to analyze the legislative outcome. The case has implications for students of organizational theory as well as policy makers considering the use of GSEs or other hybrid organizations."
10.2307_25145628	2008	"Progress in New Public Management research requires careful comparison of different organizational approaches to public tasks, preferably within a single political and institutional setting. This paper presents a study of three approaches to reemployment services, a recent development in the Netherlands. How do bureaucratic, networked, and market-based forms of organization function with regard to the new public aim of second-tier reemployment in the Netherlands? It appears that there is no simple dependence between performance and instrumental or organizational features. Even in the setting of a single welfare state, intricate interactions exist between performance, stakeholder interests, and institutional conditions. Given the importance of these interactions, New Public Management research would benefit by shifting focus away from organizational performance toward a ""politics of institutional structuring."""
10.2307_4624624	2007	This paper examines Bernard Crick's ideas on the nature of politics and explores their implications for a scientific approach to governance like that advocated recently by public management writers. It is argued here that such an approach generally downplays the inherently political character of governance because it ignores the conflicts of values and the uncertainty that are an inherent part of the way in which we have come to govern ourselves.
10.2307_977487	2003	"Hong Kong's 1997 reversion to Chinese sovereignty brought two hitherto distinctive social policy systems into one country. As Hong Kong is gradually assimilated into China in the coming decades, the two social policy systems will need to identify elements of convergence. In this article, we argue those elements can be found in parallel efforts to curtail the reach of the state, extend the role of the market, enhance individual responsibility, and in the development of a productivist social policy orientation in both societies. The social policy systems of the two societies remain strikingly different in many ways, reflecting their diametrically opposed starting points. But their reform trajectories appear to be pointing in similar directions."
10.2307_25145653	2008	"This article explores a sociological account of practical wisdom in public administrations. Very little research on contemporary applications of wisdom exists, and what research there is has a cognitive bias, largely ignoring sociology. For public organizations to create the conditions for wise practice within themselves and within individual administrators, an understanding of the social relational structures and processes that build and sustain practical wisdom is crucial. Furthermore, given that there is an aesthetic dimension to practical wisdom, an aesthetics-based approach to sociology of organizational wisdom provides a useful starting point in this sociological project. Aesthetics raises important issues of communicative action and discourse that address social relations and their structures and processes. Finally, a research agenda that explores these structural and processual issues in public administration is canvassed."
10.2307_3843937	2006	"To what extent did the extensive system of managing public services by targets, introduced by Tony Blair's New Labour government in the United Kingdom in 1998, reproduce the classic gaming responses associated with the Soviet Union and other centralized performance-setting systems? Combining evidence from documentary sources and interviews with high-level officials in the Whitehall bureaucracy, the author suggests that the three classic types of target gaming can be identified in this public management regime. However, the central managers of the target regime did not put substantial resources into checking performance data, took reported performance gains at face value, and had no coherent antigaming strategy."
10.2307_25145667	2008	"While there is a growing academic literature about mailin ballots, there has been no serious academic research to date on overseas voters, even though the counting of overseas military ballots figured into the 2000 presidential election controversy. The participation of nearly 4 million overseas voters, both civilian and military, is governed by the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act. The authors examine the reported perceptions of military and nonmilitary voters covered by this legislation using two surveys funded by the U.S. Election Assistance Commission, focusing on their perceptions of electronic means of transmitting voting materials. The authors find that civilian overseas citizens have a harder time registering and voting than military overseas citizens; that the key factor is the timely transmission of voting materials; and that, despite privacy concerns, electronic transmission of voting materials is viewed favorably."
10.2307_25145729	2008	"Trends in states' civil service reforms since the Winter Commission's report was published in 1993 are described and evaluated in the context of its recommendations. The authors argue that the commission's reform agenda relies on a public service bargain that requires public employees, elected officials, and other stakeholders to respect, trust, and support each other's efforts to serve the public interest. Its recommendations for modernizing state and local personnel systems are discussed and related to the ""reinvention"" and New Public Management initiatives of the past 20 years. Many of these ideas have been adopted by state governments, but there is no single reform model that has been followed across the states. Some states, such as Georgia and Florida, have engaged in radical reforms that include replacing traditional merit systems with at-will employment models. The general pattern involves decentralization, deregulation, and limitation of employee protections. While many of the management-oriented changes advocated by the Winter Commission are staples of states' civil service reforms, its emphasis on a ""trust and lead"" strategy based on public service values, partnership, and leadership in the public interest has not received much attention. In general, objective evaluations of states' reforms are needed to determine whether their purposes are being achieved."
10.2307_3542510	2005	"Alberto Guerreiro Ramos's public life and scholarly works challenge us to rethink and reconceptualize the field of public administration, particularly in this era of public cynicism and theoretical uncertainty. This article examines the historical context of his earlier writings and how they influenced his later scholarly work. As a prominent Brazilian scholar working in the United States, Guerreiro Ramos's ""in-betweenness,"" as he called it, provided him a unique and little-appreciated perspective from which to reevaluate the social sciences. The result was his last book, The New Science of Organizations: A Reconceptualization of the Wealth of Nations, one of the most polemical works published in the field and an examination of the fundamental assumptions of public administration and the social sciences."
10.2307_25145644	2008	"Presidential transitions make a difference to the quality of the start a chief executive has coming into office. With formal presidential transitions a reality since 1952, we have sufficient experience to identify some of the elements of an effective transition. This article focuses on how a president-elect can minimize the hazards and take advantage of the opportunities transitions offer. Opportunities and hazards can be found in the actions and commitments candidates take during their presidential campaigns, the information they gather on past transitions and on the actions of the incumbent president, the coordination they do with those in the Washington community, and their capacity to identify and take advantage of the early goodwill that exists when a new president comes into office."
10.2307_977553	1998	"This article identifies ethical and management challenges facing public managers and speculates about what the consequences may be for the public when government agencies in the United States go on line (i. e., access the Internet and establish Web sites). The article is organized into five sections. The first section discusses the meaning of cyber management as a prelude to developing organizational strategies for promoting Internet use and discouraging Internet abuse. Section 2 draws the reader's attention to the specific content of acceptable use policies for the Internet. Section 3 then explores the challenges facing public managers to understand and abate the undesirable and sometimes unethical consequences that Internet usage may have for social or group life in public organizations. This discussion is followed by an examination of government use and abuse of the Internet. The final section highlights questions that must be answered in order for public managers to become effective cyber-age managers."
10.2307_27697879	2009	"While gender has emerged as an important research subject, the development of a feminist theory has been slow. This paper calls for a commitment to the development of a feminist theory of public administration. As part of this development, the author argues that the field also must embrace research focused on the intersection of multiple identity categories such as race and class."
10.2307_3110099	2003	"Critics regarded the selection of urban empowerment zones and enterprise communities by Secretary Cisneros in 1994 as sympathetic to President Clinton's considerations. However, the secretary countered that cities were chosen based on their ability to revitalize their communities successfully, as outlined in their applications. To determine whether the secretary responded to top-down presidential preferences, data from the complete list of applications is used to test four hypotheses derived from principal-agent theory. The results of the logistic regression models do not validate the significance of the presidential variables (for instance, presidential support score for each city's congressional delegation, marginal districts, and 1992 state vote for President Clinton). Rather, many of the nonpresidential variables (community participation, size of the empowerment zone or enterprise community, and poverty) were significant in supporting the secretary's contention."
10.2307_977424	1999	"Comprehending and overcoming the resistance to equal employment opportunity outcomes requires not only having sufficient documentation and having ""enough"" women in the pipeline (both of which exist), but also an understanding of the interactions and ""lived experiences"" among men and women that perpetuates this resistance in organizations. This article explores these dynamics and relevant themes through conversations with men and women working in public organizations about how gender affects their workplace. In it, a communication model is proposed that is useful for diagnostics and intervention in organizations desiring to improve workplace relations and create a more equal workforce."
10.2307_3109903	2002	"It has become popular to advocate partnership arrangements. Such partnerships may be seen as new forms of governance, which fit in with the imminent network society. However, the idea of partnership is often introduced without much reflection on the need to reorganize policy-making processes and to adjust existing institutional structures. In this contribution, we discuss the ambiguity of partnerships. An empirical basis is provided by means of an analysis of the policy making on the expansion of the Rotterdam harbor. This case indicates that although new governance schemes are being proposed and explored, they still have to comply with the existing procedures in which they are imbedded. Governments especially are not prepared to adjust to governance arrangements. Policy making continues to be based on self-referential organizational decisions, rather than on joint interorganizational policy making. This raises questions about the added value of intended cooperative governance processes."
10.2307_25145582	2008	"This study investigates the longitudinal political and administrative problems associated with federal-local government relations. The findings demonstrate four primary challenges of the system of federal grants-in-aid that hinder the relationship of policy design at the federal level and policy implementation in local communities: the politics of decentralization, subnational capacity, program accountability and program adaptability. A case study of the Community Development Block Grant, as assessed by the Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations and the General Accounting Office between 1974 and the present, is included to demonstrate the application of these problems within the system. Although the ""evolution of devolution"" can greatly benefit the recipients of public services at the local level, it often operates within an unorganized and ineffective system that public managers at all levels of government must continue to develop."
10.2307_25145671	2008	"Public administration research has identified networks, professionalization, and collaboration with community interests as potential principles by which public organizations can enhance their capacity and effectiveness. This article explores the implementation of these principles by election administrators at the local level, where their ability to conduct elections is the subject of current scrutiny. Findings indicate that election administrators established networks, professional organizations, professionalization requirements and community collaborations prior to the passage of the Help America Vote Act of 2002. Findings also suggest that local election efforts may become more effective as a result of certain provisions of the act that promote centralization and information dissemination. Local election administrators may also continue to build capacity by applying these public administration principles."
10.2307_27697830	2009	"Numerous aspects of the day-to-day operations of local governments are subject to legal scrutiny; public managers and officials must be keenly aware of the legal rights and protections that extend to both citizens and employees of local governments. This research evaluates several areas of concern in the human resource administration of municipal governments with respect to the management of public employees within the protections set forth by the legislative and judicial branches of the federal government. Sample cases filed from 2000 to 2007 against local governments in Tennessee involving Title VII violations, retaliation, hostile work environment, Family and Medical Leave Act violations, and other employee grievances are detailed. The intent of this analysis is to highlight many of the laws and legal principles that relate to municipal human resources management and to provide scholars and practitioners with a brief overview of the liabilities that may arise from the employment relationship between local governments and their employees."
10.2307_25145578	2008	"The pathologies of the presidential appointment process are well documented and include appointees' frequent lack of federal government work experience and their short appointment tenures. Less well understood are whether and to what extent these problems affect different subsets of high-level appointees, such as administrators in the environmental bureaucracy. Top-tier environmental appointees tend to stay longer in their appointed positions than do presidential appointees generally, and more than 40 percent have prior federal government management experience. These and other data suggest that key problems ascribed to the presidential appointment process are less salient in the case of high-level environmental appointees. Appointees in Republican and Democratic administrations have comparable levels of academic training and federal government experience. These similarities notwithstanding, White House expectations for appointees' political loyalty varies more from administration to administration. The Ronald Reagan and George W. Bush (first term) administrations maintained the highest demands for political loyalty, with consequences for the policy-administration dichotomy in environmental agencies."
10.2307_3110230	2000	"The government, particularly the Department of Defense (DoD), is undergoing yet another wave of acquisition reforms, which are intended to bring commercial buying practices to DoD's purchasing operations. This research shows that, prior to these reforms, the DoD's buying practices were superior to commercial practices in terms of prices paid for a large number of electronic and engine parts. The research compares DoD and purchasing of more than 676,000 identical items costing more than $60 million with commercial purchasing of the identical items. It finds that the DoD's purchasing superiority holds even when purchasing costs are considered. The DoD achieved these results because it was already using commercial practices commonly followed by large firms: aggregating purchases, using cost data, and negotiating aggressively in markets with few suppliers. Some of the recent reforms will undermine the DoD's ability to exploit these common commercial practices and will raise the government's costs."
10.2307_3110004	2001	"Despite its appeal for improving government, many state and local governments have not developed performance-measurement systems, and even fewer use these systems to improve decision making. This study examines the factors that affect the utilization of performance measurement, based on the results of a national survey of state and local government officials. The goals of the study were to provide better information on the patterns of usage of performance measurement and to use this information to develop an elaborated model of the factors presumed to affect utilization. Using distinctions from the policy and evaluation literature, hypotheses were tested and confirmed: Policy adoption is driven more heavily by factors from rational and technocratic theory, whereas actual implementation is influenced by factors addressed by political and cultural considerations."
10.2307_3843903	2006	"In this paper, the authors use the Bush administration's management grades from the Program Assessment Rating Tool (PART) to evaluate performance budgeting in the federal government-in particular, the role of merit and political considerations in formulating recommendations for 234 programs in the president's fiscal year 2004 budget. PART scores and political support were found to influence budget choices in expected ways, and the impact of management scores on budget decisions diminished as the political component was taken into account. The Bush administration's management scores were positively correlated with proposed budgets for programs housed in traditionally Democratic departments but not in other departments. The federal government's most ambitious effort to use performance budgeting to date shows both the promise and the problems of this endeavor."
10.2307_3843905	2006	"A recent review of restructuring efforts at the Federal Bureau of Investigation published by the National Academy of Public Administration examines several studies that precipitated the reorganization and discusses the current state of counterterrorism, intelligence, and internal security functions within the agency. However, the report fails to seriously engage the benefits of restructuring federal agencies to separate criminal investigation from antiterrorism or to address the financial implications of the current reorganization. Although it provides a useful overview of current changes within the FBI, it lacks theoretical linkages."
10.2307_3110020	2002	"Early work on municipal service-quality assessment recommended multiple measures of performance from both providers and users. Citizen satisfaction surveys have rivaled their more quantitative counterpart, administrative performance measures, in adoption, but the implication of survey results for action is not well understood by managers or scholars. To achieve meaningfully integrated multiple measures of service quality, we need to explore the dimensions of citizen satisfaction and review patterns of satisfaction across localities. We also need to understand the relationship between administrative performance measures and citizen perceptions. This cross-sectional analysis of municipal citizen satisfaction and performance benchmark data suggests that citizen satisfaction survey results are useful to managers in conjunction with performance-measurement programs as part of a multiple-indicator approach to evaluating municipal service quality. However, understanding citizen perceptions requires a different perspective than that applied to administrative service performance measurement."
10.2307_4624643	2007	"This article describes the evolution of a performance measurement system in a government job training program. In this program, a federal agency establishes performance measures and standards for substate agencies. The performance measurement system's evolution is at least partly explained as a process of trial and error characterized by a feedback loop: The federal agency establishes performance measures, the local managers learn how to game them, the federal agency learns about gaming and reformulates the performance measures, possibly leading to new gaming, and so on. The dynamics suggest that implementing a performance measurement system in government is not a one-time challenge but benefits from careful monitoring and perhaps frequent revision."
10.2307_27697822	2009	"How do the concepts of emotional labor and artful affect translate into our understanding of leadership? Where would one find affective leadership in practice? To address these questions, the workdays of civil servants are examined. Based on interviews and focus groups, the authors set forth in their own words how social workers, 911 operators, corrections officials, detectives, and child guardians experience their work. These interviews reveal the centrality of emotion work in the service exchange and underscore affective leadership in practice. The authors conclude that the most important challenge facing public administrators is not to make work more efficient but to make it more humane and caring. Affective leadership, and recognition of the centrality of emotional labor therein, are the means by which this approach is championed."
10.2307_977588	2003	"Reform is a common theme in American public administration. During the twentieth century at least 12 major administrative reforms have taken place at the federal level and countless others in state and local governments. Frequently, these reforms have addressed the operation of public personnel management systems. Recent efforts associated with the reinventing government movement, for example, have proposed numerous alterations to civil service rules and procedures, and many jurisdictions have implemented significant changes in their personnel practices. This article examines the extent to which these kinds of personnel reforms have been implemented by state governments. A reform index is developed to document the considerable variation among the states in their approach to personnel practices. Several state characteristics are associated with scores on this index, including legislative professionalism, which bears a positive relationship to reform, and the level of unemployment within a state and the proportion of state employees associated with public employee unions, which are both negatively associated with reform."
10.2307_977615	2001	"In Britain, New Labour has a distinctive public philosophy that contains an ideal often found in the socialist tradition-that is, citizens attaining moral personhood within and through the community. Old Labour generally sought to realize such an ideal in a universal welfare state characterized by a command form of service delivery. New Labour has responded to dilemmas, akin to those highlighted by the New Right, by transforming this model of the public sector. It conceives of the state as an enabler acting in partnership with citizens and other organizations, delivering services through networks characterized by relationships of trust. We explore this distinctive public philosophy through its ethical vision and then its implications for welfare reform and the delivery of public services."
10.2307_4624618	2007	"Few, if any, regulations over the past decade have received as much publicity or engendered such controversy as the ergonomics regulation of the Occupational Health and Safety Administration (OSHA). Some may see the ergonomics rule as the paradigmatic instance of procedural hurdles holding up and eventually destroying a regulation. This article examines the role that procedure played in the ergonomics rulemaking. Lessons are drawn from an analysis of the four publicly available versions of the regulation and interviews with seven high-ranking officials at OSHA and the Small Business Administration. Of the procedural hurdles faced by OSHA, the notice-and-comment requirement had the largest impact on the final rule. OMB review and requirements to conduct a cost-benefit analysis served largely as a fire alarm to political overseers, and the required small business panel had largely symbolic effects. The more traditional control of congressional budgetary oversight had the greatest effect by delaying the rule for three years, and thus eventually doomed OSHA's attempts to regulate."
10.2307_40469081	2009	"A comparative analysis of regional governance policies in China and the United States is presented from multiple perspectives, including jurisdictional structure, intergovernmental relationship, and performance outcomes. Policy reviews and case studies contrast how regional approaches may assist governments to learn seminal lessons from multinational experiences."
10.2307_4096606	2006	"Scholars of public organizations have begun to emphasize emotional labor in studies of gender in the workplace, finding that the skills women bring to organizations are often overlooked and undercompensated even though they play a vital role in the organization. Emotional labor is an individual's effort to present emotions in a way that is desired by the organization. The authors hypothesize that employers with greater emotional labor expectations of their employees will have more effective interactions with clients, better internal relationships, and superior program performance. This article tests the effects of emotional labor in a bureaucratic workforce over time. Multiple regression results show that organizations with more women at the street level have higher overall organizational performance. Additionally, emotional labor contributes to organizational productivity over and above its role in employee turnover and client satisfaction."
10.2307_3542467	2003	"One of the principal motivations for the reinvention of many central governments over the last two decades is the need to deal with chronic budget deficits. As budget surpluses reappeared at the end of the 1990s, the pressure to restructure seemed to ease in some countries. However, observers suggested the relief was only temporary, and aging populations would soon put more stress on government budgets, creating a need for further retrenchment. This article assesses the vulnerability of three central governments-the United Kingdom, Canada, and the United States-to aging-related fiscal stress. Because of institutional differences, the U.S. government is likely to be hit hardest by this demographic change. This may imply that public-sector reform will take a different path in the United States than it will in the United Kingdom or Canada."
10.2307_3110113	1999	"The purpose of this study is to investigate the efficacy of political influence over the bureaucracy. To investigate this question, we analyze the behavior and motivations of bank examiners from the three banking supervisory agencies during the so-called ""credit crunch"" of the early 1990s. During the period under study, repeated calls from Congress and two presidential administrations to ease up on examination practices went largely unheeded by examiners in the field. We identify several factors that limited the extent of political influence in this case: the existence of multiple principals, rational (material) and social incentives that favored toughness over leniency, and a culture of expertise that encouraged independent judgement over formulaic actions. Our findings are consistent with a body of literature that emphasizes the above factors in shaping bureaucratic behavior. We conclude, therefore, that models of congressional influence that ignore above factors are overly simplistic and likely to lead to erroneous conclusions about the nature and extent of political influence over the bureaucracy."
10.2307_977439	2000	"Although we commonly assume that bureaucrats influence the policies which govern public behavior, we know very little about the individuals who occupy executive positions in the federal bureaucracy. Following the creation of the Senior Executive Service (SES) in 1978, the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) published guidelines detailing the skills and responsibilities required among both career and noncareer members of the SES. Although scholars have focused much attention on relations between these two groups within the federal bureaucracy, their day-to-day responsibilities remain understudied. This study reports results of a survey that was administered to 1,000 members of the Senior Executive Service to determine whether career and noncareer members of the SES have significantly different job responsibilities. Although both groups perform a variety of activities which provide them with numerous avenues to affect government policy, the research findings indicate that noncareer executives are more engaged in carrying out political liaison tasks and that career executives have slightly greater personnel responsibilities."
10.2307_40468966	2009	"Chrik Poortman, an international civil servant, worked for the World Bank for more than three decades. This profile uses his career and experiences to illustrate the functions and roles played by World Bank staff at each level of its ""flat"" hierarchy and the capacities needed to face challenges that are unique to their ilk. Each section explores a different range of functions, including working as a country director, working as a vice president, and working as a member of the World Banks senior management team."
10.2307_25145630	2008	"Research into e-government is relatively new. Nevertheless, much contemporary thinking and writing about e-government is driven by normative models that appeared less than a decade ago. The authors present empirical evidence from three surveys of local e-government in the United States to test whether these models are accurate or useful for understanding the actual development of e-government. They find that local e-government is mainly informational, with a few transactions but virtually no indication of the high-level functions predicted in the models. Thus, the models do not accurately describe or predict the development of e-government, at least among American local governments. These models, though intellectually interesting, are purely speculative, having been developed without linkage to the literature about information technology and government. The authors offer grounded observations about e-government that will useful to scholars and practitioners alike."
10.2307_27697865	2009	"The Emergency Management Assistance Compact (EMAC) is a mutual aid agreement and partnership that allows states to assist one another in responding to natural and man-made disasters, often in advance of federal disaster assistance. This article examines EMAC's response to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in order to address the significant need for analysis of emergency management at the state level. A content analysis of news reports, government documents, and reports from a number of institutions was performed to determine the volume and direction of EMAC's performance and its transactions during the response operations. The authors find a lack of EMAC training among responders, potentially reducing communication and coordination and the efficiency and effectiveness of response operations. A network analysis assessed the relationships among the responding organizations to coordinate their emergency response operations."
10.2307_3542464	2003	"Policies are implemented in complex networks of organizations and target populations. Effective action often requires managers to deal with an array of actors to procure resources, build support, coproduce results, and overcome obstacles to implementation. Few large-n studies have examined the crucial role that networks and network management can play in the execution of public policy. This study begins to fill this gap by analyzing performance over a five-year period in more than 500 U.S. school districts using a nonlinear, interactive, contingent model of management previously developed by the authors. The core idea is that management matters in policy implementation, but its impact is often nonlinear. One way that public managers can make a difference is by leveraging resources and buffering constraints in the program context. This investigation finds empirical support for key elements of the network-management portion of the model. Implications for public management are sketched."
10.2307_977646	2000	"The Supreme Court's ruling in City of Richmond v. J. A. Croson (1989) has restricted the use of government procurement assistance programs for minorities and women without the prerequisite support of a disparity study. Recently, an increasing number of disparity studies have been rejected by the courts as ""junk science"" and the related programs have been ruled unconstitutional. A central issue in these cases has been the approach used to estimate the availability of minority and women firms. Data from the Economic Census are commonly used as the basis for these availability estimates. However, there are significant problems and limitations with the Census data relative to the Croson guideline that the availability of women and minority firms should reflect the number of qualified, willing, and able firms. Given the number and difficulty of the required adjustments to the Census data, it is unlikely that these data will provide availability estimates that are accurate enough to allow for valid statistical tests of an inference of discriminatory exclusion. If minimizing court challenges is a goal of the public administrator who is responsible for the program, then the recommendation here is that a primary source of availability data should be considered. Furthermore, the information system needed to support the women and minority assistance programs should be designed and installed prior to initiating the program."
10.2307_3109989	1997	"Does the national government influence policy in the states when it exercises regulatory enforcement through intergovernmental contracts? This article examines the administrative enforcement of equal employment opportunity laws by the national Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and state fair employment practice agencies. A framework suggested by the overlapping authority model of intergovernmental relations is used. Coordinated enforcement of discrimination law is required by statute, and complex intergovernmental relationships have resulted. The majority of discrimination charges received by a state agency and the federal commission are shared as a common work load. Joint case processing is managed through annual contracts. A large proportion of variation in enforcement and content of charge resolution contracts can be explained by variation in authority, interdependence, and bargaining. Expansion of enforcement responsibility, along with budgetary constraints and decreasing staff levels, has resulted in increased work loads and case backlogs for both state agencies and the commission. The contractual division of labor has also been affected. State fair employment practice agencies are processing a smaller portion of the common work load than previously. Findings from this study suggest that administrative enforcement of discrimination law has entered a critical period."
10.2307_25145706	2008	"Ongoing public debate about the role of science in policy making signifies the importance of advancing theory and practice in the field. Indeed, assumptions about the science-policy nexus hold direct implications for how this interface is managed. A useful lens on contemporary themes is offered by the experience of a federal environmental science program that launched an ambitious effort to enhance capacity for policy relevance while protecting a commitment to sound, impartial scientific inquiry. This was achieved by developing an explicit conceptual model and implementing corresponding strategies that addressed critical gaps in capacity for policy-relevant research, analysis, and communication while supporting existing capacities. This article describes and evaluates the capacity-building effort from the dual perspectives of deepening an understanding of successful practice in the field and advancing a conceptual understanding of the science-policy nexus. It illustrates the challenges facing practitioners and the need for greater interaction between theory and practice."
10.2307_977447	2001	"For a decade, public administration and management literature has featured a riveting story: the transformation of the field's orientation from an old paradigm to a new one. While many doubt claims concerning a new paradigm-a New Public Management-few question that there was an old one. An ingrained and narrowly focused pattern of thought, a ""bureaucratic paradigm,"" is routinely attributed to public administration's traditional literature. A careful reading of that literature reveals, however, that the bureaucratic paradigm is, at best, a caricature and, at worst, a demonstrable distortion of traditional thought that exhibited far more respect for law, politics, citizens, and values than the new, customer-oriented managerialism and its variants. Public administration as a profession, having let lapse the moral and intellectual authority conferred by its own traditions, mounts an unduly weak challenge to the superficial thinking and easy answers of the many new paradigms of governance and public service. As a result, literature and discourse too often lack the recognition that reformers of institutions and civic philosophies must show how the capacity to effect public purposes and accountability to the polity will be enhanced in a manner that comports with our Constitution and our republican institutions."
10.2307_3110451	2000	"Many critics have suggested that worldwide efforts to reinvent government could also weaken democratic control over public institutions, but few have considered how attempts to implement the ""new paradigm"" in public management might affect a widely used instrument for promoting accountability: freedom of information law (FOI). FOI laws give citizens and nongovernmental organizations the right of access to government information. However, recent Canadian experience shows that reinvention can weaken FOI laws in three ways. First, attempts to reduce ""nonessential"" spending may cause delays in handling FOI requests and weaken mechanisms for ensuring compliance. Second, governmental functions may be transferred to private contractors and not-for-profit organizations that are not required to comply with FOI laws. Third, governments' attempts to sell information and increase FOI fees may create new economic barriers to openness. Thus, restructuring provides an opportunity for political executives, public servants, and some well-organized business interests to weaken oversight mechanisms and increase their own autonomy within the policy process."
10.2307_4624535	2007	"President Bush was praised early in his first term as a tough-minded decision maker who knows how to get things done. This essay argues that President Bush possesses formidable political skills that have helped him achieve many of his policy goals, focusing on his most important national security policies: the war in Iraq, the war on terrorism and the treatment of detainees, the use of intelligence leading up to the war, and the reorganization of the executive branch. In the end, however, President Bush's deficiencies as a public administrator have undermined his policy successes."
10.2307_3542600	2004	"Public administration writers, with some notable exceptions, generally have not paid a great deal of attention to the history of ideas. However, public administration inquiry is profoundly affected by longstanding political and social ideas. This article shows how the idea of the state as a purposive association-that is to say, a collective enterprise that is driven by some set of substantive ends or purposes-has helped to shape the thinking and discourse of some public administration writers, particularly those of the reinventing government movement. The implications of this for public administration inquiry and education are examined."
10.2307_4624665	2007	"Reflecting on James Hart and Edwin Witte's analysis affords the field a rare opportunity to observe the complexities of a separation-of-powers system in action. In making their case, they underscored the importance of the president having a substantial supervisory role in the way administrative agencies write rules and propose legislative measures. As a result, they ignored Congress's constitutional responsibility to supervise, regulate, and guide these areas of administrative law. Their highly controversial arguments not only provide the field with a broader understanding of the overall mission of the Brownlow Committee, but also we can see how they influenced the development of the administrative state."
10.2307_3542540	2004	"This article examines the intersection of two types of innovations that are increasingly common in public administration-accountability for results and interagency collaboration. Recent scholarship suggests four approaches that collaborators can use to increase their accountability for results. The article proposes measures of these four approaches to assess a collaborative's capacity for accountability, and uses them to compare the accountability of human services collaboratives in 10 states. The findings indicate that collaboratives tend to use the four approaches together with one another. In combination, the various approaches may help collaborators manage their stake holders' expectations about their actions and accomplishments. Further research is needed to determine whether a collaborative's capacity for accountability for results actually correlates with improvements in outcomes."
10.2307_3542672	2006	"The literature on political control of bureaucracy reveals that bureaucracies are highly responsive to political forces. This paper argues that the political control literature misses evidence from other academic literature that bears directly on this phenomenon. Specifically, researchers need to consider the values of the bureaucracy in any effort to assess the degree of political control. An empirical test is presented using a data set from public education. Results show bureaucratic values to be far more influential in explaining bureaucratic outputs and outcomes than political factors. These findings suggest that a reinterpretation of previous empirical research is urgently in order."
10.2307_977643	2000	"Policy makers have long recognized the importance of achieving a representative federal bureaucracy, but the four most recent presidents have expressed divergent views about policies designed to achieve this goal. Meanwhile, there have been widespread perceptions among federal employees that the administrations' ideologies have had a direct impact on the opportunities of minorities, women, and white men for advancement. Using government-wide data from 1979 to 1996, this article examines whether such employment opportunities have varied in the manner suggested by these perceptions. We find little evidence of a correlation between the president's views on affirmative action and minority and female representation in the overall federal workforce. Moreover, the curtailment of promotion opportunities during the Reagan and Clinton administrations has affected all groups nearly equally. Potential presidential influence has been more notable in the representation of women and minorities in politically appointed and career senior executive jobs. We conclude that equal employment opportunity and affirmative action policies have remained basically intact during the 18-year period, but that recent court decisions, along with efforts to reduce the size of government, may slow progress toward achieving a representative bureaucracy."
10.2307_976890	1998	"Using a well-validated eight-phase model of burnout, this article summarizes public-sector findings in 34 work settings-in the U. S., Canada, and worldwide. The findings fall in three major categories. First, a large number of variables co-vary with the phases in regular and robust ways-e. g., the incidence of physical symptoms increases, phase by advancing phase. Second, the incidences of advanced phases also vary in numerous populations, but burnout appears high almost everywhere. Third, burnout in the U. S. public sector is not appreciably worse than in business, but attains serious proportions in both arenas. Implications of the findings reflect major challenges for public employers and employees."
10.2307_3843915	2006	"Baltimores performance strategy, CitiStat, has been adapted by a number of cities in the United States. None of these adaptations is identical to the original or to any of the others. In fact, this analysis identifies five important features of CitiStat along with 20 sub-traits of these features that can be used to specify the important differences among these various CitiStats."
10.2307_3542658	2006	"Over the past two decades, many studies have investigated the scope and significance of performance measurement in public organizations. Nonetheless, there is more to learn about the challenges facing public managers who want to measure organizational outputs and use the feedback to improve performance. Specifically, managers are often faced with redundant measures of the same output, each of which may be preferred by a different political principal or stakeholder. Furthermore, a manager's choice of measures can have serious consequences for both the estimation of agency problems and the success of programmatic solutions. We test these assertions in an analysis of educational organizations in Texas. We find that managers' assessments of organizational performance and decisions regarding solutions depend on the choice of performance measures."
10.2307_3110327	2002	"This article provides a short history of the environmental justice movement in the United States and discusses four dominant problems in environmental justice discourse. It also will discuss three other aspects of the environmental discourse: weak empirical research; the failure to recognize the distinction between hazard and risk; and the possibility that environmental justice is more about fear, blame, procedural inclusion, and power politics than it is about public health in minority and low-income communities. More rational mechanisms for managing the issue would better serve the ideal of democracy, giving society a better chance of solving public health problems in minority and low-income communities."
10.2307_27697886	2009	"There is a long history of states using tax systems to encourage residents to invest in bonds issued by jurisdictions within their state. This preferential or discriminatory tax tr??atment was ruled unconstitutional in 2006 by the Kentucky Court of Appeals. The Kentucky court decision, which sets the stage for this essay, was overturned by the U.S. Supreme Court in 2008. This essay addresses the possible implications of this and similar discriminatory tax policies. Such discriminatory policies are the foundation of the municipal bond market, and altering the practice would have significant implications for revenue collections and borrowing costs in most states and localities. While the Supreme Court's position has been rendered, the case has caused policy makers and administrators to scrutinize discriminatory tax policies and their impact on budgets and borrowing costs."
10.2307_3542596	2004	"Research on the implementation of the Government Performance and Results Act generally has not considered how the strategic plan, annual performance plan, and annual performance report are produced and used. Are the documents good decision and management tools, as the act intends, or are agencies internalizing them to meet the unique needs of their organization? Interviews with representatives of 14 cabinet-level federal agencies suggest that implementation of the act is not standardized. Instead, it is influenced by the unique challenges that agencies face. Further, there is a relationship between the implementation challenges and the overall use of the documents."
10.2307_4624566	2007	"This case study considers how a minority stakeholder group of Israeli settlers blocked Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin's peace initiatives. Drawing on interviews with those who served in Rabin's administration and with the settlers' leaders, this article contends that the prime minister's use of adversarial public rhetoric against the settlers denied the legitimacy of an influential stakeholder group, triggering a backlash of intense militancy from the right-wing minority. This, coupled with Rabin's failure to deal with opposing coalitions, diminished his capacity to implement ""land for peace"" initiatives. The case illustrates a leader's failure to maintain adequate forms of engagement with key stakeholders. The accompanying analysis demonstrates that stakeholder theories, though incomplete in their existing forms, can still illuminate the high risk and ineffectiveness of denying the legitimacy of stakeholder groups and the strategic importance of maintaining channels of flexible negotiation and cooperation with seemingly marginal groups when high-stakes rivalries are likely to ensue."
10.2307_4624681	2007	"Does racism ever shape the way public administrators make decisions? The story of Hurricane Katrina is an opportunity to consider this neglected question. Discriminatory government policies and processes over decades ensured that African Americans were disproportionately harmed by the storm and its aftermath. In contrast to the literature on bureaucratic discretion, when the crisis came, administrators at all levels chose to take refuge in regulations rather than act creatively to save lives and reduce misery. Images of desperate black New Orleanians juxtaposed with massive government failures raise, even for skeptical observers, issues of race and racism that must no longer be ignored. The essay urges that we explore the extent to which ""masked"" racism affects the practice of public administration."
10.2307_3109991	1997	"What system of moral reasoning is characteristic for newly appointed and elected officials in post-Communist Poland? In extensive structured interviews with 485 local officials who experienced the transition from communism to democracy we expected to find a strong preference for principled reasoning when making ethical decisions in the work setting. In fact we found these officials to be remarkably similar to their U.S. counterparts in their preference for ""law and duty"" as the basis for decision making. Few of the factors established in research on U.S. public administrators traditionally thought to be related to variation in moral reasoning had significant impact here. The two striking exceptions in Poland were gender and attitude toward the issue of decommunization, both of which showed significant relationships with a tendency to reason at a principled level. Follow-up focus group sessions illuminated these findings."
10.2307_3542478	2005	"The success of societal transformation often depends on the legitimacy of the government institutions developed to mediate the transition. This article examines one case of institutional development and legitimacy building, the South African Land Claims Court. Formed in 1996 to help South Africa resolve land-claim concerns that surfaced as the nation transitioned to a postapartheid society, the court demonstrates the challenges of developing an institution in the context of largescale societal transformation, reconciliation, and governmental legitimacy building. By tracing the evolution of the court and analyzing its first five years of activities, the article presents the challenges and opportunities of legitimacy building for entities working in transitional political and administrative settings."
10.2307_3109984	1997	"This study uses a survey of city managers to show how the skills and knowledge needs of public administrators evolve as they gain experience, migrate from smaller jurisdictions, and interact with differing political environments. Early-career public administrators and those from smaller jurisdictions are more likely to experience a need for the science of administration, while those later in their careers and in larger jurisdictions are more likely to see the art of administration as the dominant skill. The implications of these results are explored from the perspectives of practitioners, MPA program directors, and academics to show the practical implications for mentoring apprentice administrators, focusing MPA curricula, and guiding future research."
10.2307_40468969	2009	"Ever since Max Weber identified formal rules as one attribute of bureaucratic organizations, scholars have uncovered a range of cooperative and uncooperative behavioral responses to organizational rules. The question for public management theory and practice is how to design and execute organizational rules in ways that elicit cooperation rather than resistance. Green tape, a theory of effective rules, provides one answer to this question. Green tape theory argues that the cooperation of stakeholders??individuals who comply with, explain, or enforce rules??depends on the presence of five rule attributes. This article tests the relationship between these attributes and stakeholder rule abidance using mail survey data obtained from the employees of four cities in a Midwestern state. The results indicate that employee perceptions of four of the five theoretical green tape attributes are correlated with higher rule abidance. Thus, stakeholder perceptions of organizational rules appear to matter because they alter the extent of cooperation in rule implementation."
10.2307_3542511	2005	"Practitioners and scholars are concerned that citizen surveys about community services are heavily influenced by respondents' opinions on other issues and by their sociodemographic backgrounds. We search for these biases by examining the extent to which citizen assessments of streets and parks in Iowa communities match the assessments of a nonresident. The citizens' ratings correlate significantly with the nonresident's ratings, indicating that citizen evaluations are not entirely the product of other influences. However, further analysis reveals some bias. In particular, streets are rated higher in wealthy towns, towns high in political efficacy, and towns where residents rate government services good overall. Parks are rated higher in towns where people come together to solve problems and in towns where people rate government services good overall. Even with these biases, our research indicates that citizen evaluations convey reasonably accurate information about the condition of community streets and parks."
10.2307_3542624	2004	"Structural reform litigation involves legal action against public bureaucracies alleging that an official has violated the legal rights of an agency's client. A pattern of rights infringements raises the specter of systemic dysfunction. If the court finds for the plaintiffs, or if the defendant agency agrees to settle, the remedy reconstitutes agency operations. What are the incentives faced by public managers whose agencies are involved in structural reform litigation? How might public managers retain public accountability while strategically using the institutional arrangements present in such cases? This article examines these questions through a spatial bargaining model and discusses its analytical implications in the context of a comprehensive suit against the child welfare agency in Kansas City, Missouri."
10.2307_3542512	2005	"Under the leadership of Mayor Shirley Franklin, the City of Atlanta introduced a new operating model for municipal government in early 2002. A central component of that effort has been a performance-measurement system-the ""Atlanta Dashboard""-designed to assess various aspects of municipal performance and, through that assessment, to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of municipal services."
10.2307_977539	2001	A major debate in American education centers on the role bureaucracy plays in shaping educational performance. Proponents of school choice argue that large educational bureaucracies have contributed to dramatic performance shortfalls in America's public schools. Other scholars view educational bureaucracies as beneficial because they manage a wide range of problems and thus make it easier for teachers to focus on the core task of teaching. This study examines these competing claims about the impact of bureaucracy on student performance using district level data from Texas public schools. The findings from several regression models reveal negative relationships between bureaucracy (measured both at the central and campus administration levels) and student performance across several different grade levels.
10.2307_3542548	2005	"The 1990s witnessed extensive promotion of volunteerism and the creation of a federal and state infrastructure to support government voluntary activities. What has been the impact on local governments? This article reports on a 2003 survey of volunteer involvement in Georgia local government, which followed a similar 1990 study and provides a rare opportunity to examine long-term trends in public volunteerism. Volunteerism in Georgia cities and counties has increased during the past decade, with 81 percent of all jurisdictions now reporting some volunteer engagement. The events of September 11, 2001, have had a small but generally positive effect on volunteer utilization. However, political and labor resistance to government volunteers has not been resolved. And the increase in public managers' concerns that they lack the funding or staff to utilize volunteers suggests that governmental capacity remains the principal obstacle to greater volunteer involvement in local governments."
10.2307_3542581	2005	"The Bush administration and some states have promoted charitable tax credits as a way to increase private charitable giving, to support antipoverty programs, and to allow taxpayers to directly determine the utility and effectiveness of nonprofit services. Looking at Arizona's charitable tax credit program, this study assesses the strengths and limitations of this policy approach. Although charitable giving increased during the first two years of the program (1998 and 1999), tax returns from 2000 suggest it may be difficult to sustain these gains in a weak economy. Larger and better-known nonprofits and taxpayers who itemize their returns are the primary beneficiaries of the program. The program may put small but well-run organizations at a competitive disadvantage, weaken accountability in the sector, and pose administrative challenges to state departments of revenue. This analysis suggests that tax credits are not a panacea for the funding needs of nonprofits."
10.2307_976893	1998	"In Adarand Constructors Inc. v. Pena (115 S. Ct. 2097, 1995) the Supreme Court ruled that federal affirmative action preference programs must undergo the strict scrutiny standard of judicial review. A program or policy subject to strict scrutiny is one that cannot pass muster under the Constitution's equal protection mandate unless there is a compelling government interest in its objectives and the program is narrowly tailored to meet the objectives. After an introductory discussion of minority business contracting opportunities in the business and federal sectors, this article reviews the Adarand decision and discusses the implications of the decision for minority business federal contracting."
10.2307_4624662	2007	"Fiscal management in the national government remains just as important to public administration in 2007 as it was in 1937. Arthur E. Buck and Harvey C. Mansfield's critique of the fragmentation among congressional, bureaucratic, and presidential interests in budgeting and accountability is a classic for those who argue for stronger presidential power and capacity within American government. This analysis draws the field's attention to what we can learn about the politics of management reform from the successes and limitations of this landmark study-lessons that will serve the field well as it confronts new issues and reform agendas in the future."
10.2307_25145737	2008	"In its 1993 report, the Winter Commission gave direction to the federal government in the area of health policy and Medicaid: lead, follow, or get out of the way. This article examines how the federal government responded to that advice, specifically asking what has happened in the allocation of responsibility in health policies between 1993 and 2006. In short, unlike the suggestion that there be a better-defined direction in federal-state policy assignments in health, the ensuing years have resulted in more of the same. The authors examine what has happened, particularly focusing on vertical diffusion-where the states have acted first-and on the role of policy learning in federal decision making. They find little recognition of policy learning in recent federal health laws-even in areas in which state experience was extensive. The federal government is leading in some health policies-but it is leading without learning."
10.2307_977465	2000	"Partnerships between government and community-based development organizations (CBDOs) have proven to be central to long-term neighborhood revitalization in many settings. These successes, coupled with the political popularity of community-driven projects, have stimulated further reliance on this approach. Unfortunately, scant research has been done on the organizational capacity of local community-based development organizations to administer these projects. It may be that many of them do not have the capacity to do the job. This article examines elements of organizational capacity in CBDOs developing affordable housing in a United States-Mexico border community. Evidence of capacity was limited, raising serious questions about the implementation of public policy in the hollow state. In their haste to contract with not-for-profits to create affordable housing, government officials may not be considering the serious possibility that CBDOs do not have the capacity to deliver services or effectively administer projects over time."
10.2307_976650	1997	"Twenty years ago, Dwight Waldo observed that one inevitable consequence of the fusion of democracy and bureaucracy is the manifestation of hypocrisy. For many public administrators, as they prepare to enter into the 21st century, Waldo's insight rings true. The demand of adapting the prevailing canons of management to the intrinsic values of democracy create a professional environment wherein the art of pretense, the methods of acting or playing a role-indeed, of wearing a mask-become virtual prerequisites for a successful career. In far too many instances, the appearance of commitment to duty is sufficient to fulfill the demands of public service; as a consequence, those individuals who are successful in appearing to be dutiful public servants are most frequently viewed as exemplary bureaucrats. In fact, however, they stand as ""scarecrows in a cucumber field,"" to use the biblical words of Jeremiah-""they cannot speak; they have to be carried for they cannot walk. Be not afraid of them, for they cannot do evil; neither is it in them to do good."" After more than two hundred years of experience at laboring in the service of democracy, is it not fair to conclude that we-as a society, and certainly ""we"" as a profession-have become expert in the application of guise and pretense to hide the hypocrisy that has infested the core of our system of democratic governance? Perhaps now is the time for us, as a profession, to borrow a page from another distinguished scholar, Chris Argyris, and commit ourselves to ""making the undiscussable and its undiscussability, discussable."" The facade of pretense applied in the name of public service tends to project bureaucracy in its most unfavorable light. If this perception is to be changed in the years ahead, it is incumbent upon public servants, individually as professionals and collectively as a profession, to create a new reality for themselves-a new image that rings true of a service in the name of democracy."
10.2307_25145654	2008	"Modern urban governance, because of its demanding and complex environment, requires a facilitative style of local political leadership that is visible, outward looking, open, and less partisan than more established forms. This article examines the impact of new constitutional expressions of local political leadership in England since the introduction of executive forms of governance for larger municipalities in 2002. The mayoral form, though established in only a handful of municipalities, is showing signs of supporting a more facilitative leadership style compared to the more widespread council leader model. This finding may be explained by the decision-making resources of mayors and their relationship to followers, which are, in turn, created by the institutional framing of their role by new constitutional arrangements. Political leadership is not simply a product of personality, capabilities, or contingency-although all of these factors play a part. Crucially, from the perspective of reformers, institutional design does make a difference and can encourage leadership practices of a particular style and form."
10.2307_3542525	2005	"Many governmental results-based management systems have not produced the expected positive effects. This article analyzes the reasons for this common disappointment by looking at three components of results-based management-results-specific information, capacities, and incentives-and concludes that incentives are often the least developed. It then synthesizes a simple framework for evaluating the efficacy of results-oriented incentives. To be successful, results-specific incentives must be tailored to fit four program characteristics: timeliness, political environment, clarity of the cause-and-effect chain, and tightness of focus. This framework suggests that some systems put too exclusive an emphasis on budgetary incentives and could be strengthened by emphasizing personnel-system rewards, especially those that look beyond business models."
10.2307_25145704	2008	"In 2005, Congress passed the Real ID Act despite decades of stalemate in reforming the U.S. national ID system. Using John Kingdon's policy streams framework, the authors examine the development of reform ideas, the opening of a policy window and the shift in the national mood after the 9/11 attacks, and the legislative tactics by the George W. Bush administration that led to the passage of the act. The analysis illustrates the significance of policy entrepreneurship in national crises but also raises questions about the permanency of policy reforms and the ethical responsibilities of public administrators in such times."
10.2307_4624663	2007	"Analyzing Robert E. Cushman's study within the context of the Brownlow Report substantiates the argument that the immediate failure of the committee's recommendations-and their influence in the longer term-is best explained within the conceptual framework of changing political orders in American political development. Seventy years later, the field has the historical perspective to see that the committee's work was buffeted by tensions between competing political orders. Today, far from being just an interesting episode in American public administration, we see that the Brownlow Committee's work on regulation, as much as work on executive organization, heralded and enabled a new era of presidential administration."
10.2307_25145645	2008	"Nearly 50 years ago, John F. Kennedy asked Clark Clifford to handle his transition planning; the day after the election, Clifford handed Kennedy a single memorandum. Transition for today's president-elect is much more complex. Managing the shift from compaigning to governing is the president-elect's greatest challenge and biggest opportunity. According to Martha Joynt Kumar in her foregoing essay, the newly elected would do well to learn from the successes and failures of their predecessors. In short, the risks rooted in the inexperience and hubris of new presidents may be mitigated or avoided by knowledge gained from analysis of transition precedents. In this essay, the author provides a practitioner's checklist of dos and don'ts drawn from his experience as a manager and advisor in presidential transitions."
10.2307_3110115	1999	"In recent years, the level of interest in performance measurement has hit new heights. In this study we seek to examine the extent to which performance measurement has become integrated into contemporary local government management. Our findings show that many local governments in the United States share a strong commitment to the effective use of performance measures, though we do identify some limits to the current state of the practice."
10.2307_3542551	2005	"The theory of representative bureaucracy concerns whether bureaucracy mirrors the origins and values of the population and, if so, whether such representation makes any difference. This article extends Hindera's examination of active bureaucratic representation within the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) to determine the effect of introducing new goals (disability discrimination) and priorities (sexual harassment) on the EEOC's representational patterns. Using data from the late 1980s and late 1990s, we find the extent of active representation of African Americans declined. Although the EEOC is now pursuing more cases of sex discrimination, no evidence of active representation exists for women in EEOC district offices."
10.2307_3542503	2005	"A government's budget represents a statement of its priorities. During the past 25 years, the international community has recognized that gender equality is essential for sustainable economic growth and full social development, and it has called upon nations to use their budgets to promote gender-equitable resource allocation and revenue generation. More than 60 countries have answered this call by implementing gender-responsive budgets at the national and subnational levels. However, gender-responsive budgeting is virtually unheard of among public finance scholars and U.S. public administration scholars and practitioners. Here we define gender-responsive budgeting, discuss the need for it, describe the lessons learned, and discuss its potential as a budget reform. We hope our commentary will bring gender-responsive budgeting into the mainstream of research in the U.S. public administration community and into the practice of government budgeting."
10.2307_3110001	2001	"Although some recent literature suggests religious social service agencies can help governments reach important social program goals, the true social organization and services of the agencies remain in dispute. This article interviews officials in the wide class of ""faith-related"" agencies in two cities to consider two aspects of this issue: the ties or ""coupling"" of agencies to faith, and the impact of coupling on agency structure and service programming. The results suggest that many sampled agencies are loosely tied to faith in terms of resources, more tightly coupled in terms of authority, and moderately coupled with respect to culture; that certain aspects of service-delivery technology are heavily secularized in many agencies; that faith is more influential in such matters as the agencies' choices of services; and that the larger, potentially more secularized agencies that might be least likely to be characterized as faith based balance differing sets of resources and thereby can more fully deliver services that arguably express faith in action. Given this finding and that most agencies profess a focus on protecting the dignity and rights of clients rather than on individual responsibility or other themes that are stressed by some recent policy proposals, governments need to be extremely selective in funding agencies to promote those proposals' themes."
10.2307_40468960	2009	"Although the rule of law is universally regarded as a fundamental principle of democratic governance y the field of public administration continues to exhibit the ""anti-legal temper"" that emerged in the 1920s, when Leonard Whites managerialism largely displaced Frank Goodnows emphasis on the intimacy of law and administration. Although administrative law is a distinguishedsubfieldofscholarship and practice within public administration y the consensus view within the profession seems to be that law is one of many constraints on administrative discretion rather than its source, a challenge to administrative leadership rather than its guiding principle. In addition to unacceptably narrowing the range of values infusing public administration, such a view undermines the professions ability to contribute to the design of our governance arrangements at a time when constitutional institutions are being seriously challenged. To fulfill its constitutional role, public administration must commit itself to the rule of law as an institution that secures its legitimacy."
10.2307_4624558	2007	"For at least a decade, scholars have sought ways to remedy citizen dissatisfaction with representative democracy. Recently, the development and deployment of the Internet has been heralded as a technical solution to this problem. Observers often base their optimism on analysis of the Internet's impact on elections and public comment processes. Yet elections do not generate the policies that people resent-policy processes do. So far, we know little about the Internet's role in this critical social activity. This article provides a framework for locating the Internet's impact on policy processes and presents findings from two case studies on ""Internet-enabled"" policy making. The cases suggest that the Internet will not fix what ails representative democracy. Indeed, the Internet may only reinforce the much-resented organizational dominance of politics. Reconnecting politics with society is still primarily the work of organizational and institutional reformers, not hardware and software engineers."
10.2307_25145728	2008	"The Winter Commission report of 1993 stressed cities with the mayor-council form of government and emphasized removing barriers to executive authority in large cities. In order to assess and update the report, it is important to recognize that a majority of cities with populations over 100,000 use the council-manager form, in which restrictions on the executive and fragmented authority are unlikely to be present because of the constitutional principles on which the form is based. There has been progress toward improved leadership in both forms of government and substantial management change, including the incorporation of reinventing government and e-government practices, and large counties are more likely to have an elected or appointed executive. An emerging issue not considered by the commission but in line with its purpose is the increasing challenge of governing expanding metropolitan and megapolitan regions."
10.2307_27697884	2009	"The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration instituted a Planning, Programming, Budgeting, and Execution System (PPBES) in 2002. As supplemented by matrix management, PPBES was appealing as an effort to rationalize the performance of an agency with an especially high degree of functional overlap among its component parts. Although PPBES has had some salutary effects, the agency's experience to date consistent with accounts of the difficulties that led to the abandonment of program budgeting by the civilian bureaucracy almost 40 years ago. As such, it speaks to the limits of performance assessment as a means of reallocating resources and responsibilities across organizational boundaries."
10.2307_4624593	2007	"The challenge of advancing policy goals and public administration is compounded when legal compliance rests on data and complex analysis. This is true of disparity studies that support local government-sponsored minority contracting programs. How can local governments prepare to work with such programs in this complex environment? The authors analyze several court cases challenging minority contracting programs and illustrate the difficulty of administering public programs at the juncture of public policy goals, subtle changes in law, and demands for quality statistical analysis. Many public agencies, especially at the local level, are not prepared to address the data requirements demanded by these programs. To help with this challenge, the authors develop a set of guiding principles to help practitioners satisfy the legal requirements and meet the policy goals of minority contracting and similar programs. This includes a new emphasis on continuous gathering of valid, local-level data."
10.2307_3109987	1997	"Recently, state legislatures have been adopting statutes that require agencies to change their regulatory procedures to address the increased demands of private property rights proponents and to avoid liability for regulatory takings. Many of these statutes, however, could portend difficult or impossible tasks for regulatory agencies and also greater liability rather than less. Emerson and Wise discuss and assess the various approaches these statutes are taking and point out dilemmas and impacts affecting state and local regulatory activity that are not apparent in the statutes themselves. They discuss how these statutes can affect the scope of government action and rearrange intergovernmental powers and responsibilities."
10.2307_3109907	2002	"This article examines how members of Congress refer to individuals in government on the House floor. Using content analysis, floor speeches from the 103rd and 104th Congresses were examined to determine the way in which terms such as ""bureaucrats"" and ""public servants"" were manipulated in floor speeches, and the political gain members seek to achieve from these moves. The data show that the Republican takeover of Congress led to a marked change in the tone of debate, and a sharp increase in pejorative discussions of individuals in government. Republicans tended to use bureaucrats in legislative debate in their efforts to shape the debate over the size and role of government."
10.2307_4624659	2007	"As the Internet becomes an indispensable component of the global economy, Internet access is an increasingly important prerequisite to exploiting social, economic and educational opportunities. Municipal wireless networks (MWNs), which are wireless Internet access networks created with active local leadership and involvement, are seen as a potential solution. In this case study we describe the development of the Philadelphia MWN including goals, stakeholder expectations, policy, applications, technology, management models, funding, and implementation. The case provides insights on how communities can act as catalysts and use information technology to promote social and economic change. We found that MWNs involve competing private and public sector stakeholders, and it is important to clearly identify the main application of the MWN. We also found that focusing on the digital divide affords both opportunities and risks, and there are powerful external forces that impact MWNs and the underlying technology."
10.2307_3542627	2004	"This study examines the role of public notice and comment in the development of 42 rules. These procedures can provide useful information to policy makers about the preferences of those who stand to be affected by agency actions. More importantly, they serve as cues for the accommodation of interests and the resolution of conflict through processes that are grounded in agencies' accountability to political officials. Yet, an examination of the interrelationship between formal, procedural constraints and the informal processes surrounding them reveals that the effects of notice and comment in promoting bureaucratic responsiveness are limited in ways that have received little systematic analysis. A consideration of the tension between the instrumental goal of procedural accountability and the political tasks that often dominate bureaucratic policy making suggests that it is desirable to return to the original use of notice and comment as a device for exposing agencies to the views of affected interests."
10.2307_25145710	2008	"Colleen Jollie, the state tribal liaison at the Washington State Department of Transportation, practices a form of transformational public administration that, at its heart, reflects a Coyote or ""trickster"" style of management. In indigenous stories across the world, the trickster uses his or her wiles to disrupt, refuse, and dismantle ways that are not working in order to creatively, and sometimes chaotically, build new ways. Jollie's work as lead tribal liaison has transformed the agency, the tribes, and the relationships between tribes and the agency, creating a culture of cooperation across significant differences and honoring the transformational energy required to cooperate across difference. Like the Coyote, who does what needs to be done through many means, but mostly through thoughtful effort, Jollie works to create change that serves both the state and the tribes. As this profile indicates, the work isn't always easy and the outcomes don't always spell success, but the work is necessary for tribes and state governments to forge the kinds of relationships imagined in treaties and in other agreements between sovereign governments."
10.2307_976892	1998	"The tension between moral aspirations and the demands of political achievement lead many to despair of the relationship between ethics and political leadership. This article builds upon the classic theory of normative prudence to argue that political prudence serves as a vital moral resource for leaders to bridge that gap. Political prudence covers the normative practices derived from the requirements of political achievement. The ethics of prudence focuses upon the obligation of a leader to achieve moral self-mastery, to attend to the context of a situation, and through deliberation and careful judgment to seek concrete outcomes that are legitimate and durable. Political prudence requires foresight, openness to experience and reason, timing, linking means and ends, seeking durability and legitimacy of outcomes, and building community. This account of political prudence argues that prudence is a necessary but not sufficient condition for ethical leadership."
10.2307_40469024	2009	"This essay examines the history of ASPA from internal and external vantage points, showing how the organization has continually adapted to demands from within and competition from without. ASPA is rooted in Progressive Era reforms that professionalized government during the first half of the twentieth century, spawning numerous associations of public officials dedicated to enhancing expertise and integrity throughout the public service. Changes in membership, mission, structure, conferences, publications, commitment to ethics, and relationships with other like-minded associations are reviewed. Today, ASPA is an agile organization that represents a uniquely generalist orientation to public service professionalism while offering more services to its members within a competitive marketplace of public official associations."
10.2307_40469033	2009	"Can the current presidential appointments process be improved? This essay highlights three kinds of problems: inexperienced appointees, a lengthening process, and tedious and adversarial inquiry. While the essay side-steps trying to affect the prerogatives of institutions involved in the tussle over appointments, it concentrates on improving the support of presidential personnel operations and the process of inquiry that nominees face, and it identifies patterns ofrepetitiveness among the roughly 2,800 details that a nominee must provide in responding to some 295 individual questions in nine categories. The most adversarial and tedious categories of inquiry include identifying personal background, reporting on criminal entanglements, and assaying potential conflicts of interest. Five strategies are identified for better matching the needed experience in the White House to the demands of presidential personnel. These changes would indirectly shorten the nomination and confirmation process, and the author makes three important recommendations for structuring inquiry that could reduce the adversarial burden on nominees by nearly a third."
10.2307_976962	1997	"How frequently are line-item vetoes used? Does the line-item veto result in substantial reductions in annual appropriation totals? What reasons do governors provide for their use of the line-item veto? This study analyzes line-item vetoes cast in 10 southern states over the 1973-92 period. Information from each state is analyzed in relation to characteristics of state budgetary processes and political environments. The study uses the first collection of in-depth, multistate data on the use of the line-item veto power. The use of the line-item veto varies greatly among the states. The non-use of the line-item veto is linked with biennial budgets, less itemized appropriations, large numbers of appropriation bills, same-party control of the legislative and executive branches, and limited gubernatorial terms in office. The only factor associated with high usage of the line-item veto is divided party control; however, divided party control is not associated with great amounts of appropriation reduction."
10.2307_977576	1998	"What are local law enforcement organizations adopting under the banner of community-oriented policing? Does implementation of community-oriented policing entail changes to the traditional structure of local law enforcement agencies? To what extent are implementation and structural changes being supported by changes in operational policies and administrative systems? The authors address these issues through a survey of local law enforcement agencies in Florida. They find that community-oriented policing manifests itself in a variety of forms, but they all seem to center on changing the officer rather than the organization. Even when structural change occurs, the impact on existing policies and systems is minimal. The authors question the long range prospects for this innovation."
10.2307_27697885	2009	"Discussions about congressional earmarking often focus on their direct costs in the federal government's appropriations bills. This article shows that this conventional view neglects the administrative costs of earmarking by examining the extensive transaction and opportunity costs that come with the political, budgetary, and programmatic management of these earmarked projects in Congress and in the Office of Naval Research. One policy conclusion from this study is that the executive branch should make these costs transparent, as they remain largely hidden from public discussion and the consideration of the federal budget."
10.2307_977478	1999	"It has long been presumed that the council-manager form of government faces special challenges in large cities. This research examines council-manager relations in the 31 cities in the United States with population over 200,000 that use the form. Compared with the results of earlier research, my results suggest that council members are more activist in their orientation and are most engaged in specific, operational, current matters, although they aspire to much higher involvement in setting the mission for their cities without decreasing their attention to constituent concerns and immediate pressing problems. The city manager and staff are more involved in providing guidance in goal setting along with continuing to play an active role in middle-range policy formation. Thus, the boundary line between the council and the city manager is increasingly blurred and shifting to include more administration and management in the council's sphere and more mission formulation in the city manager's. A boundary remains and council-manager government continues to be a complementary relationship of political and professional leaders, but the distinct roles of its two components increasingly overlap."
10.2307_3542578	2005	"This study examines U.S. public opinion on civil liberties and security in response to the politically pivotal events of September 11, 2001-what shape it is in, what shapes it, and what it shapes. Public opinion is a critical restraint on political and administrative action today because so many regulators, rule makers, and law enforcers are making decisions or advocating policies that directly affect the balance between liberty and security. The general importance that is popularly attributed to terrorism is gauged by its ranking among the most important problems. The ostensibly contradictory public attitudes toward civil liberties are analyzed, as is the supposed inconsistency between perceived personal impact and the general significance attributed to the attacks. The data rebut the allegation that the public is readily disposed to restrict civil liberties as the price of security. Findings show the public does not perceive a personal or immediate threat to civil liberties. The implications for further research and good governance are laid out."
10.2307_27697857	2009	"The budget process is seriously flawed, as Irene Rubin suggests, but there is little prospect for its effective reform. Current economic and political conditions could open the window for reform, but the excessive partisanship that helped create these conditions also has reduced the pool of institutionalists who could lead reforms. More important is confusion about which reforms might be most effective. Most proposed reforms would create more rules, but they will not work unless politicians commit to meeting the goals such rules are intended to support. Those commitments could be produced by deliberation over critical issues that have been neglected in recent discussions of budget process reform: how the process could support macroeconomic policy making, how improved budget concepts could accurately measure finances and aid in dealing with upcoming policy challenges, how reorganization could enable intelligent priority setting, and how the process could be better aligned with the constitutional sharing of powers and the electoral system."
10.2307_976686	1997	"Is it possible to think strategically about succession in the public sector? The author reviews the private-sector succession literature for insight and analyzes the barriers in the public sector to taking succession seriously. With a case study based on her own experience managing succession at the New York City Department of Juvenile Justice, she offers four strategies that the public sector leader who is committed to a strategic approach to succession might usefully employ."
10.2307_3110282	2002	"The article proposes a model for evaluating budget reforms that combines insights from budgeting, policy implementation, and system-dynamics literatures. System-dynamics modeling combines both quantitative and qualitative research techniques to provide a new framework for applied research; its use is illustrated using performance budgeting as an example. Applied to the implementation of Florida's performance-based program budget, the model identifies actions in the short run that will increase the reform's likelihood of success: providing clear communications; facilitative budget and accounting routines; reliable performance information. The model also identifies critical legislative behaviors that influence executive implementation: how the legislature in the long-run uses performance information to inform resource allocation and how it applies incentives or sanctions to programs that achieve or fail to achieve their performance standards. The legislature has the opportunity to use program reviews prepared by legislative staff to invigorate the executive branch's resolve to continue implementing the reform."
10.2307_977402	2003	"What factors influence the likelihood that a federal worker will receive unwanted sexual attention? Who is most likely to be accused of sexual harassment? What factors influence federal workers' perceptions of the effectiveness of agency sexual harassment training? Using the raw data file of the U. S. Merit Systems Protection Board's most recent survey on sexual harassment, the authors find that worker characteristics are the principal influence on the likelihood that a worker will receive unwanted sexual attention and whether an agency's sexual harassment training is perceived favorably. Contextual factors demonstrate lesser influence. Their conclusions lead the authors to believe that a reevaluation of training programs is in order. A one-size-fits-all training approach may no longer be tenable, if it ever was."
10.2307_3542521	2005	"Leaders in public affairs identify tools and instruments for the new governance through networks of public, private, and nonprofit organizations. We argue the new governance also involves people-the tool makers and tool users-and the processes through which they participate in the work of government. Practitioners are using new quasi-legislative and quasi-judicial governance processes, including deliberative democracy, e-democracy, public conversations, participatory budgeting, citizen juries, study circles, collaborative policy making, and alternative dispute resolution, to permit citizens and stakeholders to actively participate in the work of government. We assess the existing legal infrastructure authorizing public managers to use new governance processes and discuss a selection of quasi-legislative and quasi-judicial new governance processes in international, federal, state, and local public institutions. We conclude that public administration needs to address these processes in teaching and research to help the public sector develop and use informed best practices."
10.2307_25145707	2008	"Evaluating public agency performance has typically been based on objective measurements. However, some researchers contend that evaluation is not complete without considering client perceptions of agency performance. This study supports combining subjective client perceptions with objective data in the evaluation process. Survey results and internal performance data are examined for a state agency charged with investigating citizen disputes with utility companies. Regression analyses show that the factors that most influence the client's satisfaction with agency performance are the client's perception of how long it took to resolve the dispute, based on survey results, and whether the case was decided in the client's favor, from the agency's internal records. The ""real"" resolution time recorded in the agency's information system was not significant. These results indicate that subjective data provide valuable information for evaluating agency performance."
10.2307_3110358	2002	"The Internet provides a powerful tool for reinventing local governments. It encourages transformation from the traditional bureaucratic paradigm, which emphasizes standardization, departmentalization, and operational cost-efficiency, to the ""e-government"" paradigm, which emphasizes coordinated network building, external collaboration, and customer services. Based on a content analysis of city Web sites and a survey of Web development officials, this article shows that many cities are already moving toward this new paradigm. These cities have adopted ""one-stop shopping"" and customer-oriented principles in Web design, and they emphasize external collaboration and networking in the development process rather than technocracy. The article also analyzes the socioeconomic and organizational factors that are related to cities' progressiveness in Web development and highlights future challenges in reinventing government through Internet technology."
10.2307_25145579	2008	"The politics-administration dichotomy has been one of the most disputed theories of public administration. Despite serious critiques, neither the theoretical utility nor the normative power of the dichotomy has totally disappeared over the past decades. The dichotomy has been advocated on the grounds that the dichotomous division of labor and authority between elected and administrative officials increases the democratic accountability and planning ability of public administrators. This article first builds a theoretical model of the politics-administration dichotomy and then evaluates the model using empirical data collected from a nationwide sample of city managers serving in council-manager local governments. Results of structural equation modeling illustrate that the politics-administration dichotomy fails to obtain its predicted tendencies in actuality. The authors interpret the findings in light of the contemporary public administration literature. The article aims to make a theoretical-empirical contribution to one of the most challenging questions in public administration."
10.2307_25145575	2008	"To mark the 60th anniversary of the appearance of The Administrative State by reexamining the politics-administration debate is confining and ignores Waldo's grand enterprise to describe the unique context in which American public administration emerged and developed. Instead of bemoaning or strategizing the reconciliation of a supposed schism, modern scholars should appreciate what is, in fact, a natural and necessary tension."
10.2307_3542679	2006	"Because contemporary movements to modernize public administration involve virtually all countries, researchers tend to describe them as universal. Disparity among implementation models and practices, however, means that each country looks for and develops its own approach. Furthermore, within individual countries, administrative reforms are implemented differently by the different public agencies for which they are intended. Despite the aura of universalism that hovers over major administrative reforms, originality, compliance, and local particularities are key features of governance models that have emerged during the last 20 years. To support this empirical observation, we present the Quebec government's strategy for public management and the implementation of administrative reform since the 1990s."
10.2307_977635	1999	"Emmette S. Redford was an extraordinary individual in many senses. Friend of one of the most colorful presidents in American history, mentor to three generations of students, careful but conceptual scholar, dedicated public servant-Redford played all these roles. Throughout his very long career, he steadfastly advocated the need for democratic morality and believed that bureaucrats could pursue public rather than private interests. He was firmly rooted in the University of Texas at Austin, the development of which he helped to spur."
10.2307_25145701	2008	"Martha Joynt Kumar is a professor of political science at Towson University. Her book, Managing the President's Message: The White House Communications Operation (Johns Hopkins University Press, 2007), examines the media and communications operations of the administrations of Presidents Bill Clinton and George W. Bush. In March 2008, Professor Kumar was interviewed in the White House Press Briefing Room by Kevin R. Kosar on behalf of Public Administration Review. As this interview went to press, the American Political Science Association's Presidency Research Group announced that it had awarded Managing the President's Message the Richard E. Neustadt Award for best book on the U.S. presidency published in 2007."
10.2307_4624688	2007	State and local governments along the Louisiana and Mississippi coasts were overwhelmed by Hurricane Katrina and lacked the capacity to function without outside assistance. Mutual aid agreements are common among communities and provide essential surge capacity when catastrophes strike. The Emergency Management Assistance Compact (EMAC) is just such a mechanism for sharing resources. How well or how poorly governors use EMAC depends on their familiarity with the system and how prepared their state and local agencies are to integrate EMAC personnel and other resources. Governor Kathleen Babineaux Blanco of Louisiana was less familiar with EMAC than was Governor Haley Barbour in Mississippi and had less assistance in using the system. State and local officials in Louisiana were also less familiar with mutual assistance compacts than their counterparts in Mississippi. The integration of EMAC assets into state and local operations was easier in Mississippi because officials had set up an area command to coordinate operations.
10.2307_3110359	2002	"Reformers have traditionally assumed that agencies can combat corruption through controls such as tighter oversight, increased regulation, internal audits, reorganizations, and performance accountability mechanisms. But this case study of the New York City school custodial system shows how a corrupt agency can derail these devices. New York City's $500,000,000 custodial system, responsible for maintaining its 1,200 schools, has been unleashing scandals since the 1920s despite decades of regulations, multiple reorganizations, and layers of oversight. Its history shows that a deviant culture-a management ""captured"" by special interests-and an infrastructure enmeshed in abusive policies will resist controls, no matter how well-crafted. True reform requires tackling institutionalized corruption through strategies like overhauling management, eradicating special interests, and aggressively punishing misconduct."
10.2307_976958	1997	"In March 1996, Vice-President Gore unveiled a plan to ""dramatically change"" parts of the federal bureaucracy by converting them into ""performance-based organizations,"" or PBO's. PBO's would be given more freedom in operations and held accountable for the achievement of specified results. While the PBO plan may improve effectiveness in some parts of the federal government, claims about its significance have been overstated, and it will encounter serious challenges in implementation. The PBO model is not likely to be applied widely. The paper also assesses the significance of the PBO proposal as a part of a larger battle to preserve the administrative capabilities of the federal government. Finally, it is argued that the proposal is evidence of the increasing internationalization of the ""reinventing government"" movement. The weakness of the PBO plan reflects some of the weaknesses of the larger international reform movement."
10.2307_3542529	2005	"In this article, the authors provide a list of the top 10 ways to become a ""compleat"" policy analyst, drawing on lessons from their own experience as policy analysts. The authors make no claims that their list is unique. However, they suggest the items included within it are supported in the academic and practitioner-oriented literature. Counting down from number 10-""The compleat policy analyst knows how to skip steps""-the authors present and comment on the items in turn. The authors suggest the number one concern for practitioners is ""to live with uncertainty."" Other items on the list include eating crow, loving numbers, and acknowledging values and politics in the analytical process."
10.2307_977307	1997	"I never believed that I would be so consistently pressured (in some cases threatened) by the U. S. government or its contractors to do harm to the publics (United States and overseas) whose interests I was hired, ostensibly, to protect. I did not expect to be asked to cover up government wrongdoing, and, in some cases, to break the law and risk my professional status carrying out my public administration assignments overseas. But because I have experienced these pressures, and I expect that others have too, I am trying to organize colleagues to respond collectively. Individual response does not work. The editors of Public Administration Review have invited me to write about ethical dilemmas in government consulting and contract work. I hope to use this opportunity to increase awareness of professional standards and to give these standards greater credibility and backing. While the editors do not necessarily agree with all of the arguments and approaches that I present, they see the problem as serious and widespread inside and outside government and want to see the issue raised and discussed. It is my expectation that this discussion will also be raised in related social science and policy associations that have similar ethics codes though different methods of enforcement, and I am proceeding there, as well."
10.2307_3542598	2004	"Using data from two telephone surveys of New York City residents conducted during 2000 and 2001, this article employs the American Customer Satisfaction Index (ACSI) model to examine the drivers-and behavioral consequences-of overall satisfaction with local government services. While the ACSI model has been widely used to analyze customer satisfaction in the private sector and, more recently, in the federal government, it has not been tried in a local government context. Applying the ACSI model to New York City, we find the perceived quality of public schools and especially the police, as well as road conditions and subway service, are the most salient drivers of satisfaction, but the significance of each service varies across income, race, and geography. For all groups in the city, overall satisfaction drives both trust in local government officials and intentions to move out of the city. Advantages and limitations of using the ACSI model to assess the quality of local government services are discussed."
10.2307_25145665	2008	"The performance of election systems in the United States depends heavily on complex networks of people, tasks, organizations, and relationships, as well as the voting technology that has received so much attention since the presidential election of 2000. Public administration has much to contribute to our understanding of these systems. This article provides an overview of the field, highlighting linkages to theoretical approaches in public administration and emphasizing the importance of management in a brief case study."
10.2307_3542639	2005	"Texas is unique among American state governments in its approach to human resources because it has no central human resource (HR) or personnel office and no comprehensive set of centrally prescribed HR policies and procedures. Given contemporary calls for HR decentralization, Texas is an excellent case study of the practical implications of a decentralized approach to HR. This article examines findings from a survey of state agency HR directors. The results suggest that respondents do not see the putative benefits of a centralized HR model. However, respondents from small state agencies, those who perceive they do not have requisite HR expertise, and those with lower levels of educational attainment hold significantly different opinions about the benefits of centralized HR."
10.2307_3110021	2002	"The authors identified 146 city managers who have served in the same city for the past 20 years and asked them to complete a survey to determine the factors leading to their long service. As a part of the survey, the city managers were invited to express, in their own words, the reasons they had stayed in the same city for such an extended time compared to the average tenure for city managers. In the article that follows, the authors quote from the academic literature statements pertaining to practical issues of concern to city managers and the elected officials for whom they work, giving credence to the applicability of the academic literature to today's city management profession. Following the quotations from the literature, the authors present the heartfelt reflections of these senior city managers on their long careers in public service."
10.2307_977437	2000	"The New Public Management has championed a vision of public managers as the entrepreneurs of a new, leaner, and increasingly privatized government, emulating not only the practices but also the values of business. Proponents of the New Public Management have developed their arguments largely through contrasts with the old public administration. In this comparison, the New Public Management will, of course, always win. We argue here that the better contrast is with what we call the ""New Public Service,"" a movement built on work in democratic citizenship, community and civil society, and organizational humanism and discourse theory. We suggest seven principles of the New Public Service, most notably that the primary role of the public servant is to help citizens articulate and meet their shared interests rather than to attempt to control or steer society."
10.2307_3542681	2006	The most persuasive argument in favor of city-county consolidation has been-and remains-economic development through the formation of a strong and attractive regional community identity. Empirical evidence consistently demonstrates that appeals to voters based on reducing inner-city/suburban socioeconomic inequity and enhancing administrative efficiency are a recipe for failed consolidation campaigns.
10.2307_25145608	2008	"After World War II, the U.S. Congress began a process of engaging in what David Rosenbloom refers to as Congress-centered public administration. In this article, the author argues that the use of short-term authorizations by Congress facilitates congressional oversight and co-management of public programs. Using data from three case studies, the author shows that Congress is able to systematically, on a regularized basis, shape the overall goals, structures, and decision rules that govern agency activities. It can also promote research and analysis that will inform the reauthorization of a program by funding studies and requiring specific reports to be produced. The agencies are, in turn, able to implement the new legislative requirements over a given timeframe-typically four to six years-and do so in an environment that is relatively free from other congressional changes to the legislation underlying the program in question. During this time, the agency and Congress are able to determine what works and what does not work and to formulate changes that should be considered in the next reauthorization legislation."
10.2307_3109988	1997	"This article applies the theory of representative bureaucracy to state-level political appointees. The theory holds that the demographic composition of the bureaucracy should mirror the demographic composition of the general public. In this way, the preferences of a heterogeneous population will be represented in bureaucratic decision making. New measures introduced in the article provide a more comprehensive picture of the extent to which demographic groups are truly represented in state government bureaucracies. In addition, the study offers a detailed breakdown of policy leaders by gender, race, and ethnicity. Our findings show that, in most cases, women and people of color are not well represented in top policy making positions in state governments across the country. We also find that in most cases, women and people of color have achieved even lower levels of representation than is evident from earlier studies, which focus almost exclusively on the representation of these groups in career posts."
10.2307_3110111	1999	"A common conclusion among those who have studied administrative reform is that it rarely ""works"" as intended by its sponsors. This review of the National Performance Review's reinvention lab program, on the other hand, concludes that substantial success has been achieved. The explanation offered of this apparent anomaly focuses on one of the root questions about change and change processes- whether and to what extent large organizations and the behaviors of those therein can be shaped according to the intentions of one or more actors, or alternatively, whether change proceeds according to certain ""natural processes"" substantially immune to human interference. The interpretation placed on the findings is that the designers of the reinvention lab program have successfully devised a means of ""amplifying"" those processes in ways congruent with their reform objectives. Their success leads to basic questions about the construct of administrative reform itself."
10.2307_27697917	2009	"A preoccupation with network approaches in terrorism studies has inadvertently marginalized the fact that terrorist groups are subject to many of the same bureaucratic forces that impact all purposeful organizations. Because typical organizations are subsumed in the concept of networks, it is curious that scholars have been so quick to bypass more traditional models of organizations and bureaucracy that may help us understand network topology. This article relies on the new institutional approach to organizational behavior. Using the Coase theorem to explain the costs and benefits associated with different organizational structures, it follows that counterterrorism efforts may drive some groups toward greater autonomy while compelling others to adopt common bureaucratic processes, often referred to as isomorphism. By exploring the different costs that terror groups face and examining the characteristics of terrorists associated with different groups, organizational theory can help explain a divergent trend in terrorism research: leaderless jihad and increased bureaucratization."
10.2307_977523	2003	"Growing ethnic diversity translates into rising numbers of individuals facing socioeconomic disadvantage, creating a context in which detailed examinations of public policy are critical for understanding the health care needs of immigrant populations in the United States. Although many scholars document the link between social disadvantage and increased morbidity and mortality, additional analyses are needed to identify specific public policies associated with decreased access to social goods and public services. The implications of the latest welfare bill, the Personal Responsibility and Work Reconciliation Act of 1996, on the health and social welfare of the aging Hispanic population provides a unique opportunity for such inquiry. On the basis of demographic trends and recent analyses of data from the Hispanic Established Populations for Epidemiologic Study of the Elderly, the results suggest that older, Mexican-origin immigrants are likely to become an even greater administrative responsibility of state and local governments."
10.2307_977578	1998	"The problem of how to budget for entitlements is often presented in terms of entitlements being an evasion of traditional controls. Yet the policy reasons for designing a program as an entitlement can be compelling. Beyond deficit control, then, lies a basic difficulty for budgeting: due to differences in the program types, there is little reason to expect budgeting for entitlements and the alternative, here called bureau budgeting, to take similar forms. This article describes differences in purposes, procedures, and tactics as well as controversies between entitlement and bureau budgeting, raising the question of how or whether the two types can be combined in a comprehensive budget process."
10.2307_27697891	2009	"This study documents state implementation of mechanisms designed to promote public participation in agency rulemaking. Many scholars have questioned the effectiveness of such mechanisms, arguing that they fail to encourage greater participation or that increased participation does not affect the substance of administrative rules. Using data from a unique survey of state administrators, the author employs multivariate analyses to assess the relationship between these measures and the perceived influence of external actors. The results suggest that critics may understate the importance of public notification and access procedures. These devices are associated with increases in the impact that a wide variety of actors are perceived to have on the content of agency rules."
10.2307_977602	2001	"Is a trade-off between the social benefits of regulation and the economic benefits of development inevitable? We argue that environmental regulation may deter economic growth in some contexts, however, in other contexts the benefits of regulation may be obtained with little or no economic loss. We develop an explanation of the economic impacts of state environmental policy based on a model of public influence on private resource allocation decisions. In this model, we assume utility-maximizing firms will make investment choices based upon the projected profits on their investments and their willingness to accept the risk associated with the investments. We assert that state policies and administrative institutions influence perceptions of risk by increasing or decreasing uncertainty over future environmental policy and influence return on investments at particular locations by affecting firm-level production costs. Our results confirm that certain administrative arrangements for environmental regulation may enhance, rather than impede, economic development."
10.2307_3110112	1999	"The most common view of political institutions and their control over bureaucracy is the principal-agent model. That model assumes that politicians and bureaucrats disagree over goals and the means to obtain those goals. It also assumes that bureaucrats have access to valuable information that politicians do not have. Agricultural credit is a policy area that does not fit these assumptions. In it we find a version of bottom-line oversight, whereby the agency has clear goals and political institutions (in this case Congress) act only when serious problems occur. This ""smoke detector"" form of oversight is confirmed with a time series analysis of agricultural credit outputs."
10.2307_3542568	2004	"Using data from the U.S. Merit Systems Protection Board's most recent survey on sexual harassment, this study examines influences on sexual harassment in the federal workplace. We investigate the effect of workers' sociodemographic characteristics, aspects of their daily work environment (the sex of the supervisor and female/male ratio of coworkers), and agency location. Drawing on a variety of theoretical models and addressing a limitation of a previous study, we assess whether and how influences on sexual harassment differ for men and women. Not only does the likelihood of sexual harassment differ for men and women, but the determinants of harassment differ as well. Women are more likely to indicate receipt of unwanted sexual attention as their ratio of male coworkers increases, and men are more likely to indicate its receipt as their ratio of female coworkers increases. We also find differential effects for sex of supervisor, age, education, and job type, among other variables. Our analyses highlight that gender conditions the influences on sexual harassment."
10.2307_3110363	2002	"Legislative use of narrative, such as conditions and riders, in appropriations bills has become common and has had negative consequences for the executive budget and veto, as well as for the legislative process. Some governors have used the item veto as a remedy. While they have not necessarily diminished the amount of narrative, they have achieved some protection of the executive budget and veto power. Their success depends greatly on the type of legal authority embodied in this constitutional power."
10.2307_977604	2001	"Proponents of federal environmental standards argue that competition for industrial development creates a ""race to the bottom"" in which states relax their own environmental standards to avoid losing businesses to states with more ""business-friendly"" regulations. This article presents results from a unique survey of state clean air programs that show-contrary to the race to the bottom-a substantial number of states exceed federal EPA standards in a broad variety of clean air programs. Multivariate analyses of these state policies indicate that states strengthen their environmental programs in response to citizen demands rather than weaken their programs in deference to economic pressures."
10.2307_977644	2000	"Despite the centrality of merit principles to governance in the United States over the past century, scant empirical research examines linkages between institutions, and outcomes in the implementation of merit system protections. We argue that the fate of merit principles depends, at a minimum, on two influences that may compete with neutral competence. The first is partisan responsiveness by counterbureaucracies charged with holding agencies accountable to merit principles. The second influence is the sacrifice of merit in the interest of managerial prerogatives at the agency level. This exploratory study assesses both of these influences within the federal government. Our data consist of personal interviews, analyses of U. S. Merit System Protection Board (MSPB) processes, case loads, and decisions between fiscal years 1988 and 1997, and a brief case study of the Justice Department. We find that the MSPB is largely the neutral and competent agency that Congress intended to create when it enacted the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978. Less positively, our analysis also reveals that federal agencies vary in how well their personnel actions fare with the MSPB. This finding is especially germane to reinventing-government reforms that decentralize personnel management to agencies or to line operators within agencies."
10.2307_27697880	2009	"Public service nonprofit organizations have long been ""partners"" in the delivery of public services. Such nonprofit organizations are governed by boards, typically composed of citizen volunteers, that are expected to meet substantial standards of accountability and performance. Previous research has raised questions about how well such boards are meeting their responsibilities. A 2007 Urban Institute study, based on the first large representative sample of U.S. public benefit nonprofits, provides important evidence about the extent to which nonprofit boards are meeting certain accountability and performance standards."
10.2307_4624641	2007	"Occupational segregation in government employment is an important issue in public administration. Occupation determines pay and benefits, and when women have greater access to quality jobs-especially in the public sector-this promotes their economic, social, and political advancement. This research addresses two questions: (1) What changes have occurred to alter ""glass walls"" across departmental functions? (2) What impact does departmental function have on the salary of women? The findings reveal that although occupational segregation has decreased over the past two decades in Michigan's bureaucracy, it is still prevalent. Gender-based occupational segregation is linked to departmental function. Redistributive departments have much lower levels of occupational segregation than other functional categories. Mean salary is also linked to departmental mission, with distributive departments having both the highest mean salary and the highest level of occupational segregation. Salary differentials across departmental functions are becoming smaller over time. Overall, women appear to be most successful, both financially and career-wise, in historically male-dominated fields."
10.2307_3542616	2004	"Over the past decade, much has been written about the results of reinventing government. Most research has examined the effects of executive or managerial perspectives. Using David Rosenbloom's competing perspectives model, we examine Medicaid managed care programs for children with special health care needs to illustrate the influence of legislative and judicial institutional perspectives on the reinvention movement. Legislative and judicial responses to the reinvention of Medicaid managed care reveal the outer limits of what managed care and related executive reforms can accomplish in a Constitutional system that is based on checks and balances among competing institutional perspectives. Furthermore, relative to Medicaid managed care, legislative and judicial responses conserve public responsibility to society's most vulnerable populations. In the long run, the balance of institutional perspectives and values-not managerial innovation per se-will influence public administration."
10.2307_977551	1998	"This article examines the effect of coordination patterns and administrative arrangements on the accomplishment of policy goals in the delivery of employment and training services under the Job Training Partnership Act (JTPA). Jennings (1994) found that coordination has positive effects on program outcomes, but his analysis relied strictly on a perceptual measure of performance as reported by state agency administrators. The current study combines Jennings's data with more objective measures of program performance, such as placement rates and wages. This article seeks answers to several questions. What is the relationship between subjective and objective measures of performance? How are the objective dimensions of performance that are routinely reported to the U. S. Department of Labor related to each other? Does the analysis of the effects of coordination on performance depend on whether objective or subjective measures are used? Does coordination affect different dimensions of performance differently? The article tests two specific hypotheses: (1) increased levels of coordination lead to higher levels of performance, and (2) administrative consolidation of the state employment service and the administrative agency of the Job Training Partnership Act leads to higher levels of performance. The analysis indicates that both coordination and administrative consolidation make a difference for JTPA program outcomes. Consolidation has a wider range of effects than coordination, but both have substantively significant impacts."
10.2307_977318	1997	"In this article, Fred Riggs examines the concept of modernity (particularly in the context of industrialization, democratization, and nationalism), and how it has helped shape the administrative states we know today. Industrialization has vastly expanded both the tasks assigned to all contemporary governments and the resources (domestic and international) placed at their disposal. This has not only increased the need for efficient and humane public administration, but it has also magnified the necessity for bureaucratic power in order to ensure competent and impartial management of public affairs but, regrettably, it also enhances opportunities for corruption and mismanagement. The effect of democratization has been to replace monarchs with representative institutions capable of controlling and directing increasingly complex bureaucracies-while ensuring officials the autonomy and stable guidelines they need. When these institutions fail to function effectively, as they often do, public administration can collapse and, in many cases, angered public officials, led by military officers, seize power and establish bureaucratic polities marked by corruption and even greater inefficiency. Nationalism has played a fundamental role in the creation of modern democracies. Unfortunately, however, in many countries, including the United States, strains generated by imperial conquests and mass migrations have now created a host of inter-ethnic tensions and pitifully weak states where traditional concepts of public administration based on assumed national unity are put to severe tests."
10.2307_977411	2000	"Facilitation of connectedness has been a fundamental role of the American Society for Public Administration (ASPA) and the Public Administration Review (PAR) throughout their six decades of professional service. Together, they have sought to link practitioners and academicians across subfields and varied levels of activities. As a foremost refereed journal, PAR has sought to encourage the linking of practice and theory through timely publication of methodologically disciplined research, informed analyses and commentaries, and constructive literature reviews and correspondence. These responsibilities have been persistently challenging. ASPA and PAR have served a dynamic field that has made some wrong turns and had others forced on it, resulting in failed autonomy, followed by increasing partisan politicization of governments and reduced reliance on professionally expert administration. For ASPA, it has created leadership and membership problems. For PAR, it has sometimes exacerbated difficulties in connecting practitioners and academicians, but it has also created more shared concerns as important subjects of inquiry. Challenges now are to serve both enduring and new spheres of the field that are afforded by international and domestic developments. Both ASPA and PAR are striving to do that. Globalization of public administration opens a world of opportunities today. Localization, as a fundamental of constitutional democracy, is a priority internationally, presenting an engaging paradox of global attention to both place and planet. That is linked in this commentary to the classic democracy-bureaucracy quandary that has constructively challenged public administration. While arrays of other important subjects, old and new, need to command attention in PAR, these are linked in this analysis to today's theory and practice of interdependent facilitative states to assess how the journal serves its responsibilities."
10.2307_3542492	2004	"Contemporary theory of the constitutionally reasonable public servant, established by the U.S. Supreme Court in 1982 in Harlow v. Fitzgerald, is measured in reference to clearly established constitutional or statutory rights that a reasonable person would have known. In this article, the author seeks to elucidate the evolving contours of the objective reasonableness standard and examines how federal courts have applied it. To gain a firsthand impression of how public officials challenged in federal courts are measuring up to the objective reasonableness standard, the author provides a snapshot of 449 recent court cases selected from two federal circuits, the Eighth and the District of Columbia circuits. He concludes that public officials in these two circuits have fared very well under the standard of objective reasonableness. The flip side is that aggrieved individual citizens must carry a heavy burden to protect their constitutional rights."
10.2307_3843943	2006	"This paper employs theories of structural politics and delegation to develop a set of propositions about the legislative delegation of authority to quasi-governmental entities, known as ""quangos."" Legislators have incentives to condition their choice of structure for an organization charged with implementing policy on their own political attitudes toward ""good government."" The quasi-independence of quangos provides credibility for legislators to commit to a process that takes policy making out of their hands while creating a structure that increases the likelihood of achieving their policy goals. Theoretical implications are empirically examined using data on the financial autonomy of Dutch public bodies. The results support the argument that it is important to consider politicians' ideologies directly in governance studies because they form the key component of structural politics."
10.2307_977601	2001	"There has been a growing trend in the federal government toward reliance on organizations that commingle legal attributes of the government and private sectors. These hybrid organizations now constitute a quasi government that occasions both interest and concern by political leaders, practitioners, and scholars alike because these organizations touch the very heart of democratic governance: To whom are these hybrids accountable? How well is the public interest being protected against the interests of private parties? In this article, the author seeks to define the quasi government and place these hybrid entities into manageable categories from which legal and behavioral generalizations may be drawn. Are hybrid organizations a problem or a solution? Looking critically at this question, the author suggests the answer may depend in large measure on which of two management paradigms the reader accepts: the constitutionalist management paradigm or the entrepreneurial management paradigm, both of which are defined and discussed. The author concludes that the increasing reliance on hybrid organizations constitutes a threat not only to accountable management within the government, but to the fundamental values of democratic governance as well."
10.2307_4624679	2007	"Hurricane Katrina made landfall as a fast-moving Category 3 storm. Thereafter, 85 percent of Greater New Orleans was flooded, 1,500 lives were lost, and approximately 100,000 were left homeless. New Orleans' hurricane protection system failed catastrophically, leaving miles of levees without protection from waves. With global warming accelerating, smarter planning is needed for many coastal cities and communities. Surge defenses that make full use of natural and man-made components need to be augmented with sustainable development and retreat from low-lying coastal regions. Coastal restoration is the key to the future habitation of southeast Louisiana, together with an east-west levee/surge protection system across the mid-coast. This latter system must be complimented and protected by aggressive coastal wetland and barrier island restoration."
10.2307_3109900	2002	"This article summarizes the results of a study of city management in Warsaw. Contrary to the common opinion, the difficulties in effective city management in Warsaw do not stem from its communist past, but from a veneered sedimentation of a rationalist-legalist frame of action. These problems are aggravated by a negative attitude toward imitation of foreign models. The article discusses possibilities for reframing that are created by automorphism, that is, an imitation of the city's invented tradition."
10.2307_3542553	2005	"Government agencies are encouraged to adopt business practices to improve program performance. But there are significant differences between the private and public sectors, both in the nature of the commodities offered and the way people in decision-making roles maximize utility. These differences are likely to affect the success of such endeavors. We examine efforts by the Office of National Drug Control Policy to develop a National Drug Control Strategy. A theoretical model of performance-based management is developed within this context that allows us to identify tensions that are inherent in any system of this kind. Some basic methods for reducing tension are then discussed. Given the generality of the model, it is possible the observations offered here are relevant to other policy problems requiring multi-agency coordination."
10.2307_3843940	2006	"Soft governance is an approach to policy implementation in which the central government relies less on hierarchy than on information to steer local organizations. This allows for a combination of formal accountability and professional autonomy that improves the quality of public services in both the short and the long term. Guidelines of an advisory, unofficial status are one tool that central government can use for this purpose. However, an inherent problem with this approach is that even though guidelines have no official legal status, in practice, they can take on the character of formal regulation when local organizations suspect that they cannot choose alternative courses of action, however well reasoned, without being sanctioned. It is a situation that encourages conformist behavior and diminishes the long-term potential for innovation. This phenomenon is illustrated with an analysis of disaster management in the Netherlands."
10.2307_3542657	2006	"Despite a recent spate of organizational report cards, relatively little is known about their impact on consumers' choices or public policy. This study identifies 32 report cards that compare government performance across states in a variety of policy domains. These report cards fall into four categories according to their issuer: governments, commercial enterprises, academics, and advocacy groups. Government-generated report cards are directed at improving consumer choice and enhancing service quality. Commercial enterprises seek to increase profits and readership. Academics generally take a value-neutral approach, looking to stimulate public policy debate. Public interest groups, think tanks, and foundations indirectly measure public policy impact by the amount of media attention generated."
10.2307_40468964	2009	"The central question addressed by this article is the effect of state-level marriage initiatives on divorce and childhood poverty rates. State divorce rates have been problematic for researchers because of variation across states in the way they are compiled. This research takes a different approach, measuring instead the prevalence of divorce rather than the number of divorces granted in a given state or year. The authors use this indicator, derived from Current Population Survey data, as an outcome measure in a test of marriage initiatives, and as an independent variable in a childhood poverty analysis. The quasi-experimental design employs time-series and cross-section regression analysis. Results show a significant negative effect from marriage initiatives on divorce prevalence, and a significant positive association between divorce prevalence and childhood poverty rates."
10.2307_25145739	2008	"Measured in dollar terms, Hurricane Katrina was the worst natural disaster in American history. Mega-disaster response recovery and mitigation put federalism to an especially difficult test because they require speed, efficiency, decisiveness, and effective coordination. This essay focuses on the response to and recovery from Katrina in order to probe the implications of mega-disasters for federalism. It understands federalism as being composed of four dimensions: the three levels of government and the civic realm. It tests key defenses of federalism against civic and government performance during Katrina. It offers examples of successes and failures involving all four dimensions and provides specific recommendations for improving mega-disaster mitigation, response, and recovery while maintaining an appropriate constitutional balance among the three levels of government and between the civilian government and the military."
10.2307_977425	1999	"How effective are procedural controls? Why are they effective or ineffective? One way politicians and courts try to influence the decisions of administrative agencies is by imposing procedural requirements on the agency decision process. During the 1960-1990 time period, Congress and the courts imposed a succession of increasingly rigorous procedural requirements on the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission's hydroelectric licensing program in an attempt to make the agency more responsive to environmental concerns. In this paper, I examine the agency's reaction to these three ""procedural controls"" in an attempt to explain why these attempts met with only limited success. I find that each time Congress or the courts imposed a new procedural requirement on the FERC decision-making process, the agency was able to construe the new requirement narrowly and to use its retained substantive discretion to minimize the policy effects of the new procedures."
10.2307_25145574	2008	"Dwight Waldo's conception of the politics-administration question might be better understood as a ""relationship"" that contains elements of separation and intermixture rather than a ""dichotomy,"" according to this author-commentator. To suggest that Waldo came to support the dichotomy presumes agreement about the meaning of the concept that is missing in Waldo's writings and in the public administration literature."
10.2307_40469073	2009	"What is the impact of performance-based budgeting (PBB) on governmental spending? Do various PBB implementation strategies result in different outcomes? The authors, Jack Yun-jie Lee of National Open University in Taiwan and XiaoHu Wang of the University of Central Florida, gathered data from the United States, Taiwan, and China (Guangdong Province) to explore the possible intermediate-and long-term results of PBB. The data demonstrate how the impacts of PBB vary across countries and regions."
10.2307_3110323	2002	"Since the 1940s, Congress and the federal courts have sought to make U.S. federal administration more responsive to democratic-constitutional values, including representation, participation, transparency, and individual rights. As manifested in the National Performance Review, the New Public Management emphasis on results may reduce attention to these values, which for most agencies are not intrinsically mission-based. Freedom of information illustrates the problem of protecting nonmission-based, democratic-constitutional values in results-oriented public management. Agencies' annual performance plans under the Government Performance and Results Act overwhelmingly ignore freedom of information, even though it is a legal requirement and performance measures for it are readily available. This study concludes that focusing on results may weaken commitment to democratic-constitutional values by default. It suggests that using a balanced scorecard approach in performance plans could enhance attention to freedom of information and other democratic-constitutional values."
10.2307_976357	1998	"Explicitly in political discourse, and at least implicitly in academic discussion, budgeting for governments is frequently compared to budgeting for individuals or for households. These arguments sound like ""common sense,"" but they can be misleading because they misrepresent the difference between government budgeting and the processes to which it is being compared, or because the underlying assumptions about individuals and households are wrong. This article addresses the common analogies more carefully in order to generate both analytic and normative observations about how government budgeting works or fails."
10.2307_3110095	2003	"Ethical orientations that emphasize universal duties, ideals, and values are well known to public administrators. We pay attention to principle, policy, ideals, shared goals, and the provision of a variety of commonly held values, such as clean air and water, mosquito abatement, and public recreation. The word ""public"" often seems to be a synonym for ""universal."" However, this article explores particularity in ethics, especially as it applies to the life of the public servant. It identifies three distinct orientations that focus on the concrete-as opposed to the abstract-and it shows how the exceptional cases are not administrative problems; rather they provide a reality check for public administrators who suppose rules, plans, and programs to be their primary orientation toward the management of public concerns."
10.2307_25145656	2008	"This study assesses perceptions of managerial emotional intelligence in local government, as well as the practices and polices affecting it. Though few cities offer training programs for managers that are called ""emotional intelligence,"" many cities engage in activities that target or address EI skills. This study finds improvement opportunities for managers to become better attuned to the feelings of others and themselves, to better know their own strengths and weaknesses, to better deal with their negative emotions and increase their adaptability, and to improve their communication and relationship skills. Feedback and mentoring processes are directly associated with increased perceptions of EI, while other practices such as training, selection and policy development are only indirectly associated with perceptions of EI. This study contributes to the knowledge base by increasing awareness about managerial EI skills, and providing specific examples of practices to further managerial EI."
10.2307_25145606	2008	"Networks have assumed a place of prominence in the literature on public and private governing structures. The many positive attributes of networks are often featured-the capacity to solve problems, govern shared resources, create learning opportunities, and address shared goals-and a literature focused on the challenges networks pose for managers seeking to realize these network attributes is developing. The authors share an interest in understanding the potential of networks to govern complex public, or ""wicked,"" problems. A fundamental challenge to effectively managing any public problem in a networked setting is the transfer, receipt and integration of knowledge across participants. When knowledge is viewed pragmatically, the challenge is particularly acute. This perspective, the authors argue, presents a challenge to the network literature to consider the mind-set of the managers-or collaborative capacity-builders-who are working to achieve solutions to wicked problems. This mind-set guides network managers as they apply their skills, strategies, and tools in order to foster the transfer, receipt, and integration of knowledge across the network and, ultimately, to build long-term collaborative problem-solving capacity."
10.2307_4624568	2007	"In the debates over the 2003 U.S. Supreme Court decisions regarding race-based university admissions, speculation has focused on how affirmative action affects minority undergraduate enrollments. This paper uses a rational choice framework to test the conventional wisdom about the effect of race-based admissions, focusing on the landmark Hopwood judicial decision and California's Proposition 209. This study offers more generalizable findings by incorporating all public universities bound under Hopwood and Proposition 209 using data spanning 1990-2000. Findings indicate that the effect of race-based admissions standards is not what might have been predicted: Shifts in minority enrollments that are attributable to affirmative action hinge on university-specific characteristics-namely, the level of selectivity."
10.2307_3542659	2006	"Although the link between government performance and citizen trust in government seems intuitive, the relationship is not supported in some of the literature. This article argues that the difficulty of empirically demonstrating this link is rooted in the difficulty of defining and measuring government performance meaningfully. Performance measurement can improve citizen trust in government directly through citizen participation in the evaluation process or indirectly by improving citizens' perceptions of government performance. To achieve this potential, current performance-measurement practice must be improved: to measure what citizens really care about, to be more systematic and integrated across agencies, to include other governing entities, and to become an ongoing participatory process in which governments and citizens are both transformed."
10.2307_25145584	2008	"Privatization research lacks an understanding of the scope and nature of informal service delivery relationships between nonprofits and local government. This article reports on a study of local service delivery partnerships in Georgia using survey and interview data. In addition to assessing the frequency of noncontractual partnerships, this study builds on B. Guy Peters's definition of public-private partnerships to delineate the control-formality dimensions of these partnerships more clearly. The agency theory notion that a trade-off occurs between formality and control is also tested. The findings show that most public-private partnerships involving nonprofits are led by government agencies, and they are only weakly collaborative in the sense of shared authority or resources. Often, community norms substitute for formal service agreements. The study concludes with suggestions for further research regarding trust and behavioral norms in public-private partnerships."
10.2307_4624536	2007	"In response to the foregoing essay by James P. Pfiffner on President George W. Bush's legacy as a public administrator, this essay takes a practical look at three government-wide Bush administration management reform initiatives: the President's Management Agenda, the Freedom to Manage legislative proposals, and the Program Assessment Rating Tool."
10.2307_3542582	2005	"American grassroots governments have rushed to join the e-government revolution. Although there is a growing body of e-government literature, little of it is empirical. Using data from two nationwide surveys, we conduct a longitudinal examination of local government adoption of e-government, Web site sophistication, the perceived impacts of e-government, and barriers to the adoption and sophistication of e-government. We also discuss correlates of e-government adoption and sophistication with selected institutional factors. We find that e-government adoption at the grassroots is progressing rapidly (if measured solely by deployment of Web sites). However, the movement toward integrated and transactional e-government is progressing much more slowly. Continuing research, particularly longitudinal study, is needed to monitor the evolution of e-government among U.S. local governments, especially to keep pace with the practice and to ascertain the actual impacts of e-government."
10.2307_3542622	2004	"In 1947, the United States created a modern intelligence community to guard against another surprise attack like the one at Pearl Harbor. This community consists of 13 major agencies, among them the CIA and the FBI. Concealed from public view, they pose a significant challenge to the concept of government accountability in a democratic society. This article examines the failure of congressional lawmakers to hold the secret agencies accountable during the Cold War. Contrary to recent theoretical research on legislative oversight, which suggests reasons that accountability has been strong in the United States, this study finds that a weak system of legislative review has permitted a dangerous erosion of civil liberties. The study also explores the efforts of the Church Committee in 1975 to fashion new safeguards that would reduce the probability of further abuse of power by the intelligence community."
10.2307_40469071	2009	"The stability of the Chinese economy during the recent world economic crisis has attracted global attention. This essay examines the role of state-owned enterprises in Chinas continued successful economic expansion. By comparing these enterprises' performance with contemporary regulatory policies governing their American counterparts, the author, Yunhua Liu of Nanyang Technological University, finds that Chinas strategy trumps that of the United States and concludes that in a transitional, developing economy, the existence of state-owned enterprises offers an adaptive, efficacious strategy."
10.2307_977606	2001	"The creation of the Federal Register in 1935 was crucial in enhancing transparency in American national government and its accountability under law. This historic action during the troubled New Deal era established a core institutional framework that endures as the nation begins a new century and as public administration struggles with an era of new institutionalism. Drawing on archival records and interviews, this article examines the political, administrative, and legal factors that led to the Register's creation. In particular, it sheds light on the little known but pivotal role played by Justice Brandeis in an extrajudicial capacity in this process. Brandeis's actions derive, in part, from his lifelong concern for fostering government openness and ensuring accountability under law from government bureaucracy. Without his intervention, it is unlikely the Federal Register Act would have been enacted at the time and in its important institutional form."
10.2307_977058	1997	"This paper presents a theory of citizen cynicism concerning government and, based on a national survey, examines the extent of cynicism and the extent to which public officials can reduce the level of cynicism by adapting better communication strategies, improving public participation in decision-making, and enhancing government's reputation for efficiency and effectiveness."
10.2307_27697825	2009	"A descendent of slaves and a woman of proud but humble origins, Viola Osborne Baskerville has ascended to prominence in Virginia public life. As only the second African American woman to serve as secretary of administration, her appointment to the cabinet of Governor Tim Kaine has afforded her the opportunity to affect the policy areas that have long been her passion. Baskerville is known as a leader with integrity, as a dedicated public servant, and as a tireless advocate for policies that affect the promise and well-being of women and children, families, and minorities, particularly those who have suffered from poverty and discrimination. Baskerville, a trailblazing African American woman, embodies a new model of the public servant."
10.2307_977480	1999	"This article suggests that the concept of social capital may be relevant to an understanding of the possible impact of public-sector reform on standards of ethical probity within public services, particularly regarding instances of personal corruption. Using New Zealand as an example, it is argued that, especially where such reforms have been largely underpinned by the new institutional economics and public choice theory, they may tend to counter more piecemeal efforts to maintain standards of ethical integrity in the bureaucracy. These efforts may need to be reinforced by new approaches to the rebuilding of institutionalized public service, based on a fuller understanding of the important distinctions between public and corporate management."
10.2307_3110117	1999	"Is development management, as a subfield of international and comparative administration, still relevant and applicable to the administrative problems facing today's managers in developing and transitional economies? The authors answer this question by exploring the implications of globalization for development management. They identify the global trends with the most direct impacts on governance and management in developing and transitional economies, and analyze how these relate to the theory and practice of development management. The analysis focuses on four facets of development management: as a means to foreign assistance agendas, as a tool kit, as values, and as process. While globalization has introduced many changes, much of what development management has to offer remains useful, appropriate and valuable. Maintaining relevance and applicability hinges upon a closer integration between theory and practice; more cross-fertilization among development management, comparative analysis, and mainstream public administration; clearer demonstration to policy makers of the timeliness of the subfield's concepts, tools, and approaches."
10.2307_4624680	2007	"The governmental response to Hurricane Katrina was not the unalloyed failure that is often portrayed. The response was a mixture of success and failure. Successes occurred when a foundation had been laid for intergovernmental cooperation, as with the largely successful pre-landfall evacuation of Greater New Orleans, the multistate mobilization of the National Guard, and the search and rescue operations of the U.S. Coast Guard and the Louisiana Department of Wildlife and Fisheries. Postmortems should draw lessons from such successes rather than concentrate entirely on the numerous failures."
10.2307_976965	1997	"What is the relationship between the minister, who has legal responsibility for a department, and the secretary, the permanent principal officer, in a parliamentary system? Joseph F. Zimmerman reviewed the literature and interviewed sitting and retired secretaries and former ministers in the Republic of Ireland. Employing four models, the author examines the legal and informal relationships that exist between a minister and a secretary and the political culture within which they operate. The changing roles of the secretary and the impact of the Top-Level Appointments Committee are analyzed with particular emphasis on the policy advice role of the secretary. The author concludes that the policy advice role has declined; the secretary is primarily a coordinator of the activities of the various divisions within the department, and a cooperation model explains the relationship between a minister and a secretary."
10.2307_977464	2000	"This article presents a critical examination of the curricular elements of nonprofit management degree programs in colleges of business, public administration, and social work. What are the major curricular elements in each type of program? How do the curricular elements of these programs compare with generic management degree programs? What are the central challenges facing managers of nonprofit organizations, and how are these challenges addressed in each program? Based on the curricular review, is one setting more favorable for students of nonprofit management? What are the views of stakeholders regarding the ""best place"" to educate managers? Data collected from focus groups and surveys of stakeholders in each of these academic settings are presented. The paper concludes with a discussion of the implications of these findings for the future of nonprofit management education in the United States."
10.2307_977590	2003	"This article addresses three questions: To what extent is university research used in government agencies? Are there differences between the policy domains in regard to the extent of use? What determines the use of university research in government agencies? The data analysis is based on a survey of 833 government officials from Canadian government agencies. Comparisons of the magnitude of uptake of university research show large and significant differences across policy domains. The results of the multivariate regression analyses show that the characteristics of research and the focus on the advancement of scholarly knowledge or on users' needs do not explain the uptake of research. Users' adaptation of research, users' acquisition efforts, links between researchers and users, and users' organizational contexts are good predictors of the uptake of research by government officials."
10.2307_25145624	2008	"Many scholars argue that citizens with higher levels of political trust are more likely to grant bureaucratic discretion to public administrators than citizens with lower levels of trust. Trust, therefore, can relieve the tension between managerial flexibility and political accountability in the modern administrative state. Unfortunately, there is little empirical evidence showing that trust is actually associated with citizens' willingness to cede policy-making power to government. This article tests theories about political trust and citizen competence using the case of zoning. Trust in local government is found to be an important predictor of support for zoning, but trust in state government and trust in national government have no effect. These findings suggest that trust affects policy choice and helps determine how much power citizens grant to local administrators."
10.2307_3110355	2002	"This study demonstrates a quantitative approach to assessing gender discrimination in public salaries at the individual level. Using data from more than 1,000 school districts in Texas over a period of four years, the results show that gender differences in superintendents' salaries are subtle rather than systematic. Female superintendents who replace male superintendents receive lower compensation. Local district wealth also interacts with gender to affect salaries."
10.2307_977415	2000	"During ASPA's first fifty years (1939-1989), the role of women in the Society evolved from virtual invisibility, to token representation, to major participation. In the 1990s, women's role in ASPA continued to expand. They achieved just about full partnership with male colleagues in the organization's governance and they increased their contributions to ASPA's efforts to support the improvement of theory and practice in public administration through research and scholarship. However, women have not yet achieved parity with their male colleagues in scholarly output. For women to achieve full equality with men in ASPA, they must be better represented in contributions to literature and knowledge in the profession."
10.2307_3542577	2005	"In 1989, the combination of art, religion, homosexuality, and public dollars set off an explosive two-year battle and a decade of skirmishes over funding for the National Endowment for the Arts. To promote artistic freedom and to avoid political controversy, federal arts policy delegates specific funding decisions to private donors and arts professionals. In an era of morality politics-hot-button issues driven by deeply held beliefs rather than by expertise-that strategy no longer works. Artists, donors, and arts audiences diverge widely from the rest of the American public in their attitudes toward religion, sexual morality, and civil liberties, as General Social Survey data show. Delegating funding decisions to them has naturally led to some subsidies of art offensive to important segments of the population."
10.2307_3843946	2006	"There is an inherent contradiction between the basic building block of most nonmarket productive relationships-hierarchy-and the netcentric vision inspired by the architecture of modern information technology, especially the World Wide Web. This contradiction is explored by David Alberts and Richard Hayes in their book Power to the Edge: Command ... Control ... in the Information Age. The question has not yet been resolved."
10.2307_976652	1997	"This is a highly personal ramble along some of the highways and byways within U. S. public administration. The author advises that a possible subtitle for the essay-""Ignorance, Error and Oddity in our Discourse about Public Administration in the United States""-is fully suggestive of the contents, and that to say more here would unduly reveal the plot(s)."
10.2307_4096570	2006	"This paper offers practical insights for public managers as they work within interorganizational networks. It is based on the author's empirical study of 14 networks involving federal state, and local government managers working with nongovernmental organizations. The findings suggest that networks are hardly crowding out the role of public agencies; though they are limited in their decision scope, they can add collaborative public value when approaching nettlesome policy and program problems."
10.2307_40468970	2009	"Scholars of representative bureaucracy have long been interested in the linkage between passive representation in public agencies and the pursuit of specific policies designed to benefit minority groups. Research in this area suggests that the structural characteristics of those organizations, the external political environment, and the perceptions of individual bureaucrats each help to facilitate that relationship. Work to date has not, however, sufficiently investigated the impact of region on representation behavior, which is surprising given the emphasis that it receives in the broader literature on race and politics. Drawing on that literature, this study argues that, for black bureaucrats, region of residence is an important moderator of active representation because it helps to determine the salience of race as an issue and the degree of identification with racial group interests. It tests hypotheses related to that general argument in a nationally representative sample of more than 3,000public schools. The results suggest that black teachers produce greater benefits for black students in the South, relative to other regions. A supplementary analysis also confirms the theoretical supposition that race is a more salient issue for Southern black bureaucrats, when compared with their non-Southern counterparts."
10.2307_25145602	2008	"Prior research has leavened substantially our understanding of how, why, and with what consequences public organizations respond to pressures for administrative reforms. Left underdeveloped theoretically, however, is the hypothesis that agency actors may also assess the ability of administrative reforms both to advance their policy goals and to become ""weapons"" in battles within agencies for advancing them. To illustrate this possibility, this article analyzes how the Clinton administration's National Performance Review and related Defense Reform Initiative interacted with its efforts to ""green"" the U.S. military in the post-Cold War era. Analysis of this clash between defense and environmental values indicates that (1) agency actors did evaluate the potential impacts of administrative reforms on their policy goals before supporting or opposing them; (2) they tried to hijack those reforms as weapons for advancing their policy goals in intraorganizational battles; and (3) the ""weaponizing"" of these reforms produced policy complications and consequences that proponents neither anticipated nor welcomed. Thus, reform in the administrative domain created unanticipated consequences by spilling over into the policy domain and being hijacked, weaponized, or otherwise miscarried or used opportunistically in intraorganizational policy battles. The study concludes by arguing that these dynamics merit more attention than they have received from either administrative reform proponents or researchers seeking to develop theories of administrative reform."
10.2307_976358	1998	"Among the many assumptions about public management widely embraced but rarely tested is the notion that public sector managers are more averse to risk than managers in the private sector. Taking a multivariate measure of ""risk culture,"" this study seeks to identify and to explain differences between public and private organizations. The concept of risk culture pertains to managers' perceptions that their co-workers and superiors take risks and promote risk-taking. Some of the factors examined as possible determinants of risk culture include political control, nature of reward systems, levels of formalization and red tape, bureaucratic structures, and goal ambiguity. Using questionnaire data from a variety of public and private organizations, we find that there is considerable variance in organizations' risk culture but the sector of an organization tells us little about its risk culture. Risk culture is, however, well accounted for by the various explanatory factors employed here. Particularly, a riskier culture is positively related to the willingness of top managers to trust employees and to the clarity of organizations' missions. Organizations with more red tape, weak links between promotion and performance, and high involvement with elected officials tend to have a less risky culture."
10.2307_40468967	2009	"The politics-administration dichotomy has drawn criticism from contemporary public administration scholars largely because of its lack of descriptive accuracy and particular normative inclinations. In their search for an alternative model to the dichotomy, some scholars developed what is widely known today as complementarity. Although this emerging view received an enthusiastic welcome from many scholars and practitioners, more research has yet to be done to address its conceptual and empirical shortcomings. Using survey data collected from a nationwide sample of city managers, this study explores empirical foundations of the complementarity view of the politics?? administration relationship. Specifically, the author first identifies a politics?? management continuum based on a review of public administration literature on the complementarity view and then analyzes survey data to see whether the relationship between elected officials and public administrators is characterized by complementarity. The results of the analysis generally support the complementarity view, in that the responses of city managers mostly parallel the idea of a continuum in elected official?? public administrator relationships, a continuum that moves from politics on one end to management on the other end, with various policy and administration activities in the middle. This paper aims to make a conceptual and empirical contribution to an important question in public administration."
10.2307_4624615	2007	"This article uses resource dependence and institutional theory to examine the implementation of the Administrative Dispute Resolution Acts of 1990 and 1996. The insights from these theories are employed to explain the diffusion of and variation in the application of alternative dispute resolution (ADR) to different programmatic areas. Although agencies have generally complied with the direct requirements of the acts, their intent has not been fully realized. Several factors have complicated the implementation of the ADR Acts, prompting agencies to take different strategic approaches to the application of ADR in programmatic areas. In general, agencies have acquiesced to the use of ADR in employment disputes, compromised on ADR use in contracting and procurement disputes, and avoided ADR use in civil enforcement disputes. Finally, this article evaluates progress toward impact evaluations of the ADR Acts and suggests directions for future research."
10.2307_40468973	2009	"Much of the discourse on leadership in sub-Saharan Africa emphasizes leader characteristics, skills, styles, and behaviors, while ignoring the relationships, interactions, practical judgments, and unique contexts that make up leadership in everyday cultural community life. This essay argues that the focus on individual leaders hardly reflects leadership as practice in African communities. An alternative, pragmatic view based on unique historicity and cultural community norms is proposed, one that has a chance of fostering social change and institutional transformation."
10.2307_3542669	2006	"After more than a quarter-century of service at the Bureau of the Budget, Dr. Elmer Staats accepted a 15-year appointment as head of the General Accounting Office. Prior to his retirement in 1981, Staats oversaw an expansion and modernization of the GAO. He introduced sophisticated data processing, program evaluation beyond mere efficiency, as well as a more diverse work-force. Improving relationship with Congress and agency clients significantly advanced public accountability throughout government. His remarkable career achievements contain invaluable lessons for today's administrators involved with initiating organizational reforms."
10.2307_4624633	2007	"Since the Progressive Era, efficiency has been a cherished administrative value and a key concept in the study of public administration. Despite contemporary attention to other criteria, such as responsiveness and equity, efficiency remains a guiding governmental value and a focus of scholarly writing. Although efficiency is often considered an apolitical value, this article argues that public sector efficiency receives meaning through a political framework. The analysis explores changing definitions of transit efficiency to propose a revitalized, politically attuned concept."
10.2307_25145604	2008	"Many local governments measure and report their performance, but the record of these governments in actually using performance measures to improve services is more modest. The authors of this study examine patterns of performance measurement use among a set of North Carolina cities and conclude that the types of measures on which officials rely, the willingness of officials to embrace comparison, and the degree to which measures are incorporated into key management systems distinguish cities that are more likely to use performance measures for service improvement from those less likely to do so."
10.2307_977506	2001	"This article pursues a detailed understanding of strategic considerations in large-scale partnership negotiations that have implications for public service over the long term. Specifically, this study focuses upon the strategic context of negotiation between governmental entities and private firms as fundamental to partnership viability. Metaphorical comparison between U. S. patent policy (especially as it pertains to cutting-edge biotechnical and digital information issues) and public-private partnership is used to coax out new insight about the latter. The first section sketches an outline of U. S. patent policy as a means of generating analogous questions that can structure discussion of strategy in public-private partnerships. The second section explores the intricacies of public partnership by responding to four questions derived from the patent metaphor. In probing the implications of strategic partnership issues for public managers, the final section defines new capacity-building roles that are consistent with governance as an emerging form of public administration."
10.2307_4624564	2007	"Public agencies use surveys to solicit feedback from citizens and targeted customer groups, but many experts question whether the results of these surveys are valuable. This paper explores how a recent innovation in citizen surveys-asking public administrators to predict how citizens will respond to survey questions-may be used to increase that value and, at the same time, provide additional data of interest on its own account. The innovation is explored through two surveys: (1) a public opinion poll of Georgia residents conducted by the authors for the Georgia Department of Transportation in January 2004, and (2) a brief survey of that agency's administrators asking for their predictions of public opinion. The prediction process appeared to increase the agency's interest in the resident survey. The findings document the frequent superiority of groups-what Surowiecki terms ""the wisdom of crowds""-over individuals in predicting public opinion."
10.2307_4624559	2007	"This study moves beyond traditional approaches to public administration and public policy decision making to consider how interpersonal influence tactics affect policy decisions in group decision-making settings. Decision makers reported their own use of interpersonal influence tactics to achieve policy objectives, as well as those used against them. Responses were compared to individual decisions made over the course of policy-formulation meetings. The results indicate that the most popular techniques were inspirational appeals and rational persuasion. The most effective techniques for influencing participants varied according to the type of decision to be made: During the visioning process, coalition tactics and inspirational appeals proved most effective; for more concrete decisions about current issues, rational persuasion, inspirational appeals, and consultation influenced decisions."
10.2307_3542579	2005	"This research examines how traditional regulatory and voluntary approaches affect motivations to address potential harms to water quality. The traditional approach consists of governmental enforcement of mandatory requirements; the voluntary approach consists of government calling attention to potential harms and facilitating actions to address them. These approaches are best thought of as ends of a continuum rather than as the sole choices. Three sets of findings emerge from the research. One, not surprisingly, is that traditional regulation is more effective than the voluntary approach alone. A second shows that deterrent fears and the sense of duty to comply are important motivations for action. A third concerns factors that account for the variation in each motivation for which inspections, peer reputation, and attitudes toward government are shown to be important considerations. These findings point to the duality of deterrent fears and civic obligations as motivations to address potential harms."
10.2307_977455	2001	"Municipal police agencies are major users of information technology, and much remains to be learned about the effects of computerization on police operations. This article examines computerization in 188 municipal police agencies in 1993 in cities with populations of 100,000 or more. Relationships among computer hardware, police-file computerization, and police functions are examined. Cities are categorized as low, medium, and high levels of computerization to uncover differences in expenditures and police-officer allocation. Personal computers and mainframes supported file computerization of management and administration, throughput, and crime evidence. Management and administration files influenced computerization of police functions, particularly for management and crime solutions. Highly computerized cities reported larger shares of employees in technical positions, spent more per capita, and reported fewer officers per capita than cities with lower computerization levels. These relationships held after controlling for independent influences such as density, fiscal capacity, crime levels, and population."
10.2307_40469076	2009	"To compare administrative reform in one of the worlds most ancient civilizations and in one of the worlds ""youngest countries"" produces some surprises. Administrative reforms in both countries are similar, but occur at different periods of history. Mengzhong Zhang of the University of Maryland at College Park discovers that some of China's recent reform efforts resemble historic efforts in the United States up to half a century ago. Other components of administrative reform in China reflect contemporary practices in the United States. This phenomenon reflects convergence, rather than divergence."
10.2307_977510	2001	"The ""big questions"" articles previously published in Public Administration Review found a widely divergent set of questions rather than a shared research agenda. This article applies the concept of layers of society to analyzing the author's starting points and developing questions that link the organizational and institutional levels. Connecting these levels offers the potential to overcome the limitations of problem solving on only one level. In addition, this framework explains the diversity of research in public administration as potentially productive and connected, rather than fragmented and in intellectual disarray. This article offers four researchable questions that connect the organizational and institutional levels. The proposed questions build on existing research and address practical problems in public administration. This framework provides a typology that expects diverse research questions and can productively connect researchers with each other and with the complex challenges of democracy."
10.2307_40468965	2009	"Privatization appeals to citizen and politician desires for more cost-effective methods of service delivery. For this reason, it is important for public administrators to know when gains can be made by contracting out or privatizing services and when it is better to keep service provision in house. This article assesses the viability of contracting out and privatization of transit services. Following up on the 1986 work of James Perry and Timlynn Babitsky, which used data from the early 1980s, the authors revisit whether certain service delivery arrangements are more efficient and effective than others in the provision of transit services. Twenty-five years later, they find results similar to those of Perry and Babitsky s original study. Neither the type of government nor whether an agency contracts out has much impact on the efficiency and performance of urban bus services. The main difference between the two studies is that private transit agencies are no longer more efficient or effective than public providers."
10.2307_3110002	2001	"Changes in the United States federal system mean that managers must operate by taking into account multiple interacting governments and nongovernmental organizations; dealing with numerous programs emanating from Washington and state capitols; and engaging in multiple intergovernmental transactions with an expanding number of intergovernmental instruments. Four models of management within this changing system are identified. The top-down model emphasizes executive-branch control and is embedded in enforcement and exchange related to the laws, regulations, funding rules, program standards, and guidelines associated with federal/state grant, procurement, and regulation programs. The donor-recipient model emphasizes mutual dependence or shared program administration, where two-party bargaining or reciprocal interactions among government officials is the norm. The jurisdiction-based model is defined by the initiated actions of local officials and managers who seek out program adjustments and other actors and resources to serve the strategic aims of their governments. The network model highlights the actions of multiple interdependent government and nongovernmental organizations pursuing joint action and intergovernmental adjustment. Although the first two models are long-standing and the latter two are emergent, all appear to be alive and well on the intergovernmental scene, posing complex challenges for public managers."
10.2307_977397	2003	"Under the principle of ""one country, two systems,"" Hong Kong's and China's civil services are changing, but they clearly are not converging. The civil service reforms made in Hong Kong and China appear to be heading toward two logical extremes: one toward strengthening political authority over the civil service, and the other instituting greater institutionalization. What appears to be a problem in Hong Kong may be seen as a solution in China. Not only reform problems, but also reform options, are defined in relation to wider political institutions and changing socioeconomic dynamics. The study shows that while some things do need to be uniform, such as loyalty to the state and central government, a great deal of flexibility regarding administrative systems within one country is possible. There can be a modern nation without a truly national civil service."
10.2307_3542653	2006	"Despite its importance to agency effectiveness, communication performance is an understudied topic. This is partly attributable to the ""performance predicament,"" which arises because costs of communication are easier to measure than its benefits. In this study, we develop and test an exploratory model of public sector communication performance that is synthesized from the literature on public-private differences and organizational communication. This model is statistically significant and explains the variation in interpersonal, external, and internal communication performance. This is perhaps the largest empirical study on public sector communication to date. Our findings have two key implications for public managers. First, the constraints of red tape on communication performance can be overcome if key performance-enhancing conditions-goal clarity without rigidity and a culture that supports communication-are in place. Second, external communication poses more challenges and may require additional effort."
10.2307_25145609	2008	"Executive turnover can have profound effects on city policies, programs, and commitments such as contracting or issuing debt. This article identifies how political changes, reflected in the composition of the city council, and economic changes in the community influence city manager turnover. Analysis of manager turnover patterns in 143 large U.S. cities with council-manager governments from 1987 to 1999 allows us to distinguish ""push"" and ""pull"" factors that can induce city managers to leave their jobs. The empirical analysis demonstrates that political conflict and economic development can influence the likelihood that a city manager will exit a community, but these effects can be complex. In particular, the influence of community economic development on turnover includes a temporal dimension not revealed in previous research. We conclude by discussing the findings' implications for career patterns in city management."
10.2307_4624584	2007	"This interview marks the 30th anniversary of the publication of Hugh Heclo's classic, A Government of Strangers: Executive Politics in Washington. This engaging conversation touches on such wide-ranging themes as Heclo's early mentorship by Aaron Wildavsky; his nurturing apprenticeship at the Brookings Institution, leading to the publication of A Government of Strangers; the increasingly intense partisanship and schism within the executive branch between career federal bureaucrats and political appointees; the conduct of presidential administrations as never-ending political marketing campaigns; the cynical harnessing of religion in the service of policy objectives; public service and institutional commitment; and the need for political leadership to engage the public honestly and responsibly on matters of fiscal concern."
10.2307_3542569	2004	"Trust in government is foundering. Ethics codes have limited utility in bolstering public trust, and a clear correlation between such codes and changed behavior must still be established. They are a means for external oversight, but they do nothing in terms of providing an internal moral compass. To rebuild trust in government, employees must also act with integrity. Actions that are both ethical and carried out with integrity are necessary-neither is sufficient. Acknowledging this, the Dutch Tax Administration undertook a two-pronged approach focused on the management of integrity as a means to codify the operational ethics of the organization, as well as to foster shared values and behaviors. This approach is noteworthy because it guides behaviors while retaining street-level discretion. It also is the first step toward creating a bureaucracy of mutual relationships that creates an ongoing moral consciousness serving both democracy and efficiency not only through control, but also through self-reflection, interaction, and association."
10.2307_27697861	2009	"For most of U.S. history, presidents have issued signing statements to comment on bills being signed into law. These statements often are hortatory and comment on the merits of the new law. In recent decades, presidents also have used signing statements to indicate portions of laws that they consider unconstitutional. Pointing out such parts of new statutes is not a problem, but indicating that the president may not execute part of the law is problematic. President George W. Bush used signing statements in an aggressive way to imply that he might not faithfully execute more than 1,000 provisions of statutes that he signed into law. This essay argues that this practice undermines the rule of law and threatens the separation of powers system."
10.2307_27697858	2009	"Budget reform requires goals that are both good public policy and achievable. The core purpose of budgeting is to consider and relate details and totals. Common demands for reform are dubious because they slight consideration of details. For this reason, too strict a definition of ""balance"" would be bad policy; the demand for balance over many decades is neither good policy nor realistic; and multiyear discretionary spending caps can be both bad policy and impractical. Concern about passing annual budget resolutions ignores the fact that the major reason for annual totals is no longer endorsed by policy makers and economits. Scorekeeping should be honest and accurate and often can be improved, but possible achievements are limited. Budget reforms will not make government accountable if the governing coalition is united in seeking to avoid that, and if neither the public nor elites demand it."
10.2307_3542507	2005	"One of the thorniest issues of intergovernmental fiscal relations is state oversight of local fiscal affairs. States have oversight responsibility and must take action when local governments run afoul of responsible fiscal behavior. Less accepted is how states can detect local financial difficulties before they become emergencies that require state takeover. Research in the 1970s provided some assistance to states wishing to recognize local financial emergencies. But the time has come to look at this issue anew, particularly with an eye toward predicting local financial problems before they become serious. This article describes a 10-point scale that predicts these problems and tests the scale to predict local fiscal stress in a sample of Michigan local governments."
10.2307_4624638	2007	"The federal government uses government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs) to allocate credit to sectors such as housing and agriculture that are considered to deserve special support. The GSEs illustrate the importance of life cycle in the design and accountability of federal agencies and instrumentalities. Four case studies are presented here. In general market and political dominance and rapid growth are inherent in GSE design. Dominance means inadequate feedback, which can foster poor management and financial risk. Government lacks an exit strategy for GSEs that have outlived their usefulness. Government should systematically review the organizational structure, accountability, and design of all agencies and instrumentalities, both at inception and over their life cycles."
10.2307_977579	1998	"This article examines the role of leadership in the ""reinvention of government"" in nine federal offices, four located in the Veterans Administration and five in the Defense Department. The research for the article was done in two phases. In phase one, the relationship between organizational culture and reinvention was explored. It was discovered during this phase that the leader was critical to reinvention efforts. In phase two, the leaders were categorized according to Bennis's four leadership competencies. The research found that organizational culture facilitated or hampered reinvention and leaders influenced the organizational outcomes in both reinvention and related performance measures, most likely via the organizational culture."
10.2307_977421	1999	"Given that research is the first step in improved practice, how can public administration doctoral programs train more productive research scholars? This article reports details on the first systematic attempt to answer this question empirically. Specifically, the authors collect data from 47 NASPAA-affiliated doctoral programs and test conventional wisdom distilled from the literature. Three factors prove to be important in doctoral programs that train productive research scholars: (1) engaging students in structured research experiences that culminate in student research productivity, (2) providing students with adequate financial support, and (3) employing productive faculty members. These three factors explain approximately 70 percent of the variation in graduate research productivity across doctoral programs, and they represent action steps for programs interested in improving the research productivity of their graduates. The implications for improving the quantity and quality of scholarship in public administration are discussed."
10.2307_977412	2000	"One of the twentieth century's ""big questions"" for United States government has been how best to retrofit, or integrate, the full-fledged federal administrative state into the constitutional scheme. The public administration orthodoxy initially advocated placing the executive branch almost entirely under presidential control; Congress and the federal judiciary responded otherwise. Congress decided to treat the agencies as its extensions for legislative functions and to supervise them more closely. The courts developed an elaborate framework for imposing constitutional rights, values, and reasoning on public administration practice. As the challenge of retrofitting continues into the twenty-first century, public administrators might profitably play a larger role in the constitutional discourse regarding the administrative state's place in constitutional government."
10.2307_977647	2000	"Public policy makers, planners, and managers are increasingly relying on what might be called large-group interaction methods to involve large numbers of people (from as few as eight to more than 2,000) in planning and implementing major change efforts. These methods are structured processes for engaging large numbers of people to: (1) enhance the amount of relevant information brought to bear on a problem; (2) build commitment to problem definitions and solutions; (3) fuse planning and implementation; and (4) shorten the amount of time needed to conceive and execute major policies, programs, services, or projects. Proponents of such methods claim that they provide sets of concepts, procedures, and tools that can help public and nonprofit organizations and communities deal effectively with change. On the other hand, a number of boundary conditions surround the successful use of the methods. The authors compare and contrast seven approaches most frequently used in the public sector in the United States and abroad (i. e., Real Time Strategic Change, Search Conferences, Future Searches, Strategic Options Development and Analysis, Strategic Choice, Technology of Participation, and Open Space Technology) to illustrate their comparative strengths and weaknesses and to develop an agenda for research."
10.2307_976566	1998	"The 1990s have been an era of cutback management and downsizing in government. How do agencies cope with sharply diminished resources? NASA's Big Science satellite program, until recently called ""Mission to Planet Earth,"" illuminates issues that can affect all agencies and programs in the current era. For comparison, the Space Station and the Department of Energy's Superconducting Supercollider are also addressed. Three strategies suitable for cutback eras are discussed: resistance, mitigation, and a mix of resistance/mitigation. The goal of these strategies is not the customary one of survival and growth; it is survival and stability. Leadership is always important in governing Big Science. It is especially so in cutback times."
10.2307_3542479	2005	"Service charters are located at the intersection between public administration reforms and governance initiatives for improving citizen trust in governments. Service charters in Spain show the will to shift from a legal tradition to one that meets citizens' needs and makes government more accessible, transparent, and open to the public. The article examines the role and performance of service charters and the contribution of charters to change in Spanish public administration, to the empowerment of citizens in the improvement of service standards, and to citizen participation in the organization of public services. It aims to investigate the factors that drive the introduction of charters and the performance that can be obtained. To test the potential of service charters in Spain, we interviewed public-sector managers at the central level by applying the Delphi method and statistical techniques."
10.2307_3110173	2002	"The rhetoric of public policy affer September 11 encourages us to believe that the preservation of freedom and the safety of the common good requires our universal acquiescence to technological invasions of privacy. The purpose of this article is simply to warn that the rhetoric of public policy solutions post-September 11 may be inconsistent with the philosophical and legal framework of American democracy. While serving as a solution today, this rhetoric may pose a devastating blow to the balance of individual privacy and common good that is essential to the preservation of freedom."
10.2307_3542595	2004	"With the passage of the Civil Service Reform Act in 1978, the federal government created the Senior Executive Service (SES) and formally committed the federal government to equal employment opportunity, advocating a ""federal service reflective of the nation's diversity."" Since then, women have made dramatic progress in the ranks of the SES. This research probes the following questions: Has women's advancement into the ranks of the SES been illusory or real? Are women simply being appointed to token positions to fulfill affirmative action goals? Or do they contribute to governance from real positions of power and influence? Using data from a recent survey of Senior Executive Service members, this research indicates that male and female members of the SES have almost identical responsibilities and, most interestingly, women executives rate themselves as relatively more influential than do their male colleagues."
10.2307_25145603	2008	"Public administrators at the local level often rely on citizen surveys to measure the outcomes or accomplishments of their service delivery efforts. However, many remain skeptical about the value of survey-based measures of local government performance, in large part because of the low empirical correlation between objective and subjective performance measures reported in the literature. Using data from New York City's street cleanliness scorecard, a well-established outcome measure, combined with responses from more than 4,000 respondents to a citizen survey, the authors find a clear and consistent correlation between the scorecard and citizen ratings of street cleanliness in their neighborhoods. Moreover, the street cleanliness scorecard is a much stronger predictor of citizen ratings than demographic factors, trust in government, or contextual effects. These results demonstrate that citizen judgments about government performance can correspond closely with more objectively measured outcomes-and that citizen surveys can provide valid and useful performance measures, at least for some local government services."
10.2307_40469028	2009	"Notwithstanding the persistence and proliferation of calls to serve ""customers,"" these relationships incorporate distinctively public priorities and performance expectations??priorities and expectations often shaped by a desire to reduce customer vulnerabilities and prevent seller strategies that are deemed unacceptable. The authors examine these distinctively public relationships??between professionals and clients, guardians and wards, facilitators and citizens, and regulators and subjects. By acknowledging that public administration often involves relationships with multiple constituencies and that opportunities to serve them are bounded by particular legal and institutional contexts, this essay provides a pragmatic account of strategic opportunities to defend public service values."
10.2307_3110217	2002	"Government reformers urge the adoption of a private-sector-style ""customer focus."" but critics see it as inappropriate to the public sector, in particular because it devalues citizenship. This article first argues that most public-sector organization-client interactions differ from the private-sector customer transaction and offers a typology of these interactions. But second, it proposes that the central feature of the customer model-the notion of exchange-can be broadened in a way that accentuates the importance of administrators' responsiveness to their publics. In a social-exchange perspective, government organizations need things from service recipients-such as cooperation and compliance-which are crucial for effective organizational performance; eliciting those things necessitates meeting not only people's material needs but also their symbolic and normative ones. Engaging in these different forms of exchange with clients is not necessarily inconsistent with an active citizenship model."
10.2307_25145734	2008	"At the state and local level, fiscal sustainability is the long-run capability of a government to consistently meet its financial responsibilities. It reflects the adequacy of available revenues to ensure the continued provision of the service and capital levels that the public demands. After examining separate revenue and expenditure trends for state and local governments, this article identifies three specific sets of pressures that affect subnational fiscal sustainability-cyclical, structural, and intergovernmental. It then presents three specific examples of these pressures: Medicaid, pensions and retiree health benefits, and infrastructure. The author asserts that without changes in the fiscal system-in both revenues and expenditures-state and local fiscal sustainability will disappear. It concludes with some potential solutions but argues that the most difficult reform is to ensure that the public understands that there is no such thing as a free lunch."
10.2307_25145725	2008	"This article draws on the contributions to this issue and related evidence to assay the extent to which the states and larger local governments have moved in directions endorsed by the Winter Commission in 1993. The commission's recommendations targeted (1) the political context of state and local governance, with a particular focus on executive leadership, campaign finance reform, and citizen engagement; (2) the specifics of public administration, with primary emphasis on empowering managers through internal deregulation and bolstering human resource capacity; and (3) the nature of the relationship between the national government and the states in a key policy arena. Significant changes in the fabric of state and local governance have occurred in each of these three areas over the last 15 years. Many of these modifications are consonant with the thrust of the Winter Commission report, but the evidence also points to the limits of state and local reform. Further reform initiatives should be built on systematic efforts to advance knowledge concerning the origins, nature, and outcomes of the array of institutions and processes present at the state and local levels."
10.2307_3542570	2004	"We argue the negative relationship between school bureaucracy and school performance that is commonly reported in the bureaucracy and educational policy literature is theoretically and empirically incomplete. Like most public agencies operating in complex task environments, we suggest that schools have to make trade-offs between the multiple outputs they are expected to produce. Bureaucracy plays an important role in determining the nature of these trade-offs: one that is more multidimensional than it is portrayed in the existing literature. We find bureaucracy's relationship with school performance depends on how performance is measured. It is negatively associated with test scores but positively associated with other performance measures such as attendance and dropout rates. This is consistent with an economies-of-scope perspective of bureaucracy, which emphasizes bureaucracy's role in managing the trade-offs inherent in pursuing multiple goals."
10.2307_4624544	2007	"The relationship between religion and politics in the United States is a much-studied academic area, particularly evident in political institutional and behavioral venues such as interest groups, electoral behavior, and political culture. One academic area that has not received much attention is the influence of religion on public administration. Recently, however, public administration scholars have begun to mimic their counterparts in the business world by examining the role of religion and spirituality in the public workplace, especially with regard to organizational performance, ethical behavior patterns, decision making, and the personal spiritual health of employees. This article examines the role and impact of religion and spirituality in the workplace, reviews court cases and political measures regarding religious expression in the public sector, explores a private sector model to explain the interrelationship between religion and spirituality in the public workplace, and challenges public administrators to consider the positive role that religion and spirituality can play in the public workplace."
10.2307_977433	2000	"One element of the debate over New Public Management concerns public-sector entrepreneurship. Critics see entrepreneurs as people prone to rule breaking, self-promotion, and unwarranted risk taking, while proponents view them as exercising leadership and taking astute initiatives. This article examines two samples of the best applications to the Ford Foundation-Kennedy School of Government innovation awards, one between 1990 and 1994 and the other between 1995 and 1998, to see whether they are more consistent with the critics' or proponents' views. The second sample closely replicates the first, and the evidence from both strongly supports the proponents' views. Innovators are creatively solving public-sector problems and are usually proactive in that they deal with problems before they escalate to crises. They use appropriate organizational channels to build support for their ideas. They take their opponents seriously and attempt to win support for their ideas through persuasion or accommodation."
10.2307_3110357	2002	"Information technology has become one of the core elements of managerial reform, and electronic government (e-government) may figure prominently in future governance. This study is designed to examine the rhetoric and reality of e-government at the municipal level. Using data obtained from the 2000 E-government Survey conducted by International City/County Management Association and Public Technologies Inc., the article examines the current state of municipal e-government implementation and assesses its perceptual effectiveness. This study also explores two institutional factors (size and type of government) that contribute to the adoption of e-government among municipalities. Overall, this study concludes that e-government has been adopted by many municipal governments, but it is still at an early stage and has not obtained many of expected outcomes (cost savings, downsizing, etc.) that the rhetoric of e-government has promised. The study suggests there are some widely shared barriers (lack of financial, technical, and personnel capacities) and legal issues (such as privacy) to the progress of municipal e-government. This study also indicates that city size and manager-council government are positively associated with the adoption of a municipal Web site as well as the longevity of the Web site."
10.2307_3110300	1999	"This study deals with the effects of veterans' preference on women's careers in the federal civil service between 1975 and 1995. This analysis applies time series regression and logistic regression to employment, promotion, age, and salary data for males and females, both veterans and nonveterans. Contrary to claims that veterans, a predominantly male group, are privileged throughout their careers, these data reveal diminishing effects of the preference and disadvantages to veterans. Thus, one can expect little change in federal women's status if veterans' preference is eliminated."
10.2307_977536	2001	"Given that a majority of states have had some sort of performance-budgeting initiative on the books for several years, how has implementation of such reform progressed? To answer this question, we surveyed legislative and executive budgeters from the 50 states, asking them for their impressions of performance-budgeting implementation in their state. Specifically, we asked these budget officers about the reasons for introducing performance budgeting in their state; the types of activities required of their system; responsible oversight bodies; extent of application across state agencies and departments; and perceived levels of effectiveness and problems experienced with implementation of the budget reform. Our findings indicate that implementation of performance-based budgeting systems is proceeding slowly. While there are some benefits to highlight, results show that implementing performance budgeting is not without problems-perhaps the greatest being differing perceptions of use and success among budget players, particularly across branches of government."
10.2307_977645	2000	"Since 1964 and 1972 when Congress passed key legislation concerning sex discrimination, the courts have been left to fashion policies on sexual harassment in employment. In 1998, the Supreme Court issued four major decisions in this area, one dealing with suits against school districts, one involving same-sex discrimination, and two pertaining to the application of common law to employer liability in sexual harassment cases. The ruling in the first case is at odds with the others, suggesting that Congress may need to intervene. The other three pose a series of complex issues that could benefit from congressional action and administrative guidance from the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. The Court's rulings have answered some legal questions, but posed others that will produce extensive litigation in coming years."
10.2307_977435	2000	"The field of public administration has a long history of popular reform movements. Many of these reforms have failed to deliver the improvements promised. The current ""reinventing government"" reforms, which follow largely from the writings of David Osborne and his coauthors, claim to establish a new governmental paradigm based on liberating employees and citizens to do their best and using new management methods to get the most out of what government does. However, a careful analysis of Osborne's chief works, Reinventing Government and Banishing Bureaucracy, reveals that their advice cannot be applied because it is inconsistent. No new paradigm is established, and, more importantly, because of the ahistorical nature of these texts, Osborne proposes discredited ideas for administrative reform and misleads the reader concerning the significance of his observations."
10.2307_40469027	2009	"Claude Ferguson, who in his own words ""met the test of his lifetime, ""deviatedfrom the norms of the U.S. Forest Service articulated by Herbert Kaufman in The Forest Ranger to became a government guerrilla against the organization he loved. This profile highlights several enduring themes: the inherent tensions between democracy and bureaucracy, the many masters of career bureaucrats, how organizational culture can both empower and constrain employees, and what it means to act responsibly, ethically, and with integrity as a public servant. In addition, this case demonstrates how the Forest Service has evolved since Kaufman's classic study. First, Kaufman depicted forest rangers as ""valuing the organization more than they value[d] getting their own way, ""yet this profile underscores that public servants do not check their worldviews, mores, or ethics at the door. Second, Kaufman described the Forest Services efforts to routinize the decisions of its employees in an effort to prevent allegiances to, or cooptation by, local populations. Yet in this Administrative Profile, Ferguson's hidden strategic tactics co-opted local stakeholders to enlist their support for a cause he deeply felt was right and just."
10.2307_976563	1998	"If its academic admirers can avoid the trap of becoming a cult of programmed believers, the New Public Management (NPM) can have three constructive legacies for the field of public administration: (1) a stronger emphasis on performance-motivated administration and inclusion in the administrative canon of performance-oriented institutional arrangements, structural forms, and managerial doctrines fitted to particular contexts, in other words, advances in the state of the public management art; (2) an international dialogue on and a stronger comparative dimension to the study of state design and administrative reform; and (3) the integrated use of economic, sociological, social-psychological, and other advanced conceptual models and heuristics in the study of public institutions and management, with the potential to strengthen the field's scholarship and the possibilities for theory-grounded practice. While discussing each of these legacies, this article concentrates on the third and most controversial. The kinds of conceptual thinking that can strengthen the intellectual foundations of the field are illustrated by comparing the logic of management within the framework of competitive markets, a logic which has inspired many of New Public Management's reforms, with the logic of management within the framework of constitutional governance. While substantively different, these two styles of inquiry are surprisingly similar in their interdisciplinary use of theory to create subtle and sophisticated models of structure and strategy, with important implications for the study of bureaucracy and public management."
10.2307_25145730	2008	"The Winter Commission proposed a state and local government procurement reform agenda that placed public managers at the core of a depoliticized, deregulated, and more pragmatic public sector contracting process. Drawing on the literature and data from several state and local government surveys, this article shows that between 1992 and 2003, state and local governments' contracting practices moved in directions consistent with the commission's reform agenda. By 2003, state and local governments had decentralized and deregulated their contracting processes, were contracting more effectively and in circumstances in which it is more likely to be successful, and had adopted several innovative technologies and management practices."
10.2307_977422	1999	"Medicaid reform, which has been central to state government reform throughout the United States, represents conceptual and implementation challenges for practitioners and scholars. This article investigates one such reform, in Kansas, where the state contracted with nonprofit agencies for Medicaid case management services. We examine policy rationales for this social service reform in light of the actual economic and management environments. We offer a typology of contract management complexity which articulates how structural factors affect contract management challenges; it indicates that this social service reform presents substantially greater complexity than more traditional service contracting. Our analysis shows that key aspects of the market model of contracting are absent in this reform, reflecting a gap between the political rhetoric which surrounds the reform and the reality of the contracting experience. The lack of market conditions to impose discipline on contractors raises questions about contract management capacity and administrative accountability. The level of management complexity suggests the need for well trained contract management staff and especially sensitive accountability structures to facilitate contract monitoring and minimize principal-agent complications."
10.2307_25145652	2008	"Recent attention to best practices has resulted in a complex array of terminology and a number of compendia of effective practices that may be daunting to public policy makers and administrators seeking solutions to important public problems. This study clarifies these distinctions and builds on them to create a decision tool that will help policy makers as they use best practice information in program adoption or development. Decision makers must know their goals in seeking out best practices. As they evaluate potential practices, they should consider not only the quality of available evidence of effectiveness but also the risk of harm to constituents and the cost per unit of benefit generated. The study applies the rubric to an emerging practice in support services for individuals with disabilities known as Cash and Counseling, demonstrating that the practice is low risk, cost neutral, and improves effectiveness and consumer satisfaction. The tool highlights the judgmental elements of concern in the decision process while providing a means to assess multiple decision dimensions in a coherent fashion."
10.2307_3542594	2004	"Job segregation-the tendency for men and women to work in different occupations-is often cited as the reason that women's wages lag men's. But this begs the question: What is it about women's jobs that causes them to pay less? We argue that emotional labor offers the missing link in the explanation. Tasks that require the emotive work thought natural for women, such as caring, negotiating, empathizing, smoothing troubled relationships, and working behind the scenes to enable cooperation, are required components of many women's jobs. Excluded from job descriptions and performance evaluations, the work is invisible and uncompensated. Public service relies heavily on such skills, yet civil service systems, which are designed on the assumptions of a bygone era, fail to acknowledge and compensate emotional labor."
10.2307_3110454	2000	"This article examines public attitudes about using for-profit firms or nonprofit organizations to deliver public services in Michigan. Using survey data, it shows how the public reacts to the privatization of various state and local government services. It then considers some dimensions of attitudes toward privatization. Finally, it estimates models that predict support for privatization based upon a range of characteristics of respondents to our survey."
10.2307_976559	1998	"In recent years, liberation and market-driven management have emerged as dominant approaches in the field of public management. It is argued that a new and more sophisticated form of managerialism described as ""neo-managerialism"" underpins these two approaches. It is also argued that neo-managerialism has a guiding influence on how champions of liberation and market-driven management conceptualize administrative leadership. Neo-managerialism fosters the idea that administrative leaders should assume the role of public entrepreneur. An argument is presented that public entrepreneurs of the neo-managerialist persuasion pose a threat to democratic governance."
10.2307_3542556	2005	"Comparative public administration, in method and in content, has not successfully integrated with the main field of public administration, to the detriment of both. With globalization and changes in information technology, the current separation impairs public administration education. This assessment is based on a literature review and an appraisal of the contributions of comparative scholarship. Suggestions for future research strategies promote viable, integrative, and relevant cross-cultural studies. They emphasize (1) the utilization of cooperative teams of researchers instead of individual efforts; (2) the use of multi-case analysis instead of the traditional single-case approach; (3) improvement of the definition and verification of cultural influences on administration; and (4) expansion of middle-range analysis to examine specific administrative practices across national boundaries as a strategy for enhancing relevance."
10.2307_25145648	2008	"What is the nature of corruption in Western democracies? To answer this research question, the authors study 10 Dutch corruption cases in depth, looking at confidential criminal files. The cases allow them to sketch a general profile of a corruption case. The authors offer nine propositions to portray the nature of corruption. They conclude that corruption usually takes place within enduring relationships, that the process of becoming corrupt can be characterized as a slippery slope, and that important motives for corruption, aside from material gain, include friendship or love, status, and the desire to impress others. The explorative multiple case study methodology helps to expand our understanding of the way in which officials become corrupt."
10.2307_3542493	2004	"This study examines the extent to which staff in local welfare systems have embraced new welfare reform goals and, if so, the extent to which local management practices contribute to the alignment of staff priorities with policy objectives. It looks at agency structure and several aspects of public management from a microperspective that prior research has linked to agency performance including training, performance monitoring, staff resources, leadership characteristics, and personnel characteristics. The research indicates that front-line workers in welfare offices continue to believe that traditional eligibility determination concerns are the most important goals at their agencies. It also finds that management practices and the structuring of agency responsibilities matter: To the extent that public managers want to redirect local staff to focus their attention on the new goals associated with welfare reform, they can create the conditions under which staff have clear signals about what is expected and could provide them with the resources and incentives to realign their priorities."
10.2307_25145576	2008	"This article distinguishes the competing interpretations of the politics-administration dichotomy, noting that as, originally framed, it was intended to detach partisan politics and patronage from sound public management. Waldo, the author suggests, concerned himself with the later, more expansive conception of the dichotomy, which included the process of policy making."
10.2307_25145632	2008	"Examining the rankings of American states in one fast-growing policy area, e-government, states with the most sophisticated and comprehensive policies varied over a five-year period. What factors account for change in digital government policy innovation over time? Using time-series analysis and 50-state data, the authors find that state institutional capacity is important for continued innovation. They also find an association between reinvention in state governments and the institutionalization of information technology, suggesting a more general orientation toward government reform and modernization. Although state wealth and education were not significant in previous studies, they emerge as predictors of later innovation. The theoretical contribution of this study is to better understand the dynamic character of innovation over time and the role of institutions. The link between reinvention and e-government raises the possibility that the modernization of state institutions generally facilitates innovation."
10.2307_25145670	2008	"Election reform has evolved since the 2000 presidential election. One issue that has remained at the forefront of public debate is how to build confidence in the election process. The foundation for confidence is based on procedures for electoral security and transparency. In this article, the authors use legal theories of evidence and public administration theories related to standard operating procedures to consider how election fraud-and claims of fraud-can be prevented by having effective and rigorous chain of custody procedures. Using case studies, they show how such chains of custody can be implemented and examine which states have processes and procedures that promote the transparency that is critical for public examination of the electoral process. They conclude with a consideration of best practices in this area."
10.2307_4624686	2007	"Federal state, and local governments did not work well together to provide an effective response to Hurricane Katrina. Some of this failure can be attributed to the power struggle between the federal and state governments. The National Incident Management System (NIMS) was designed to foster collaboration among governments and their departments and agencies. However, this system largely failed. To overcome this failure, many have proposed centralizing disaster response in the federal government. Centralized control would damage the basic federal structure of our government as the national government appeals to the ever-present dangers of terrorism and natural disaster to gain permanent primacy in the relationship. The current federal system actually can work better than centralization if leadership and organizational transformation are stressed. The National Incident Management System has many elements in place that can make the federal system of disaster response work if the proper stress on organizational transformation and leadership is applied."
10.2307_40469031	2009	"Policy makers and public managers emphasize the importance of bringing private sector experience and skills into the public and nonprofit sectors. One result is an increased focus on privatization and contracting out, developments to which researchers have been attentive. However, the longstanding practice of hiring people with industrial experience into the public and nonprofit sectors has received remarkably little attention. This study, based on questionnaire responses from mid-and upper-level personnel in public and nonprofit sector organizations, attempts to understand the dynamics of sector switching from the private into either the public or nonprofit sector. Using event history analysis, the article looks at switching patterns. The probability of switching into the public sector is much higher for those who held a managerial occupation in their previous private sector job than for those who held professional and technical positions. Having more subordinates in a previous private sector job is associated with a lower likelihood of switching into a public sector job. By contrast, switching into the nonprofit sector is more often associated with a promotion."
10.2307_3542566	2004	"Most literature on public-sector networks focuses on how to build and manage systems and ignores the political problems that networks can create for organizations. This article argues that individual network nodes can work to bias the organization's actions in ways that benefit the organization's more advantaged clientele. The argument is supported by an analysis of performance data from 500 organizations over a five-year period. A classic theoretical point is supported in a systematic empirical investigation. While networks can greatly benefit the organization, they have a dark side that managers and scholars need to consider more seriously."
10.2307_3110361	2002	"Very little systematic research has been conducted to determine the policy effects of changing the form of county government. The findings of this study suggest that efforts to modernize county government structure may enable county officials to respond successfully to increasing citizen demands for a higher level of current services as well as expand the menu of services. Specifically, there is a strong association between the type of county government (non-charter commission, non-charter commission/appointed administrator or elected executive, or charter commission/appointed administrator or elected executive) and county spending for all types of services. In addition, there is a strong linkage between type of county government and three categories of county services representative of the service roles of the modern American county-that is, traditional, local, and regional services."
10.2307_976689	1997	"Public administrators often have to deal with conflicts. However, many public administrators have not been adequately exposed to the skills and rationales of conflict resolution. Ample literature about conflict exists in sister disciplines such as sociology, international relations, and labor relations. These studies focus on the impact of conflict, the nature of conflict, the players in the conflict, and possible strategies for conflict resolution. These studies can help public administrators better understand the nature of their work as well as their roles as conflict resolvers, conflict observers, or parties to conflict. The field of public administration could benefit greatly by incorporating the conflict resolution perspective into its teaching and research."
10.2307_25145655	2008	"Local government managers are described as key participants in the development of interlocal cooperation, but the interests of city councils in this process have gone largely unstudied. Here, the author addresses the theoretical importance of council-manager relations in interlocal public service cooperation. Three propositions identify areas of shared council-manager responsibility. Evidence from in-depth interviews with city council members is used to assess each proposition. While interlocal partnership has been described as a managerial activity, council members take an interest in network development and agreement assessment. Managers, on the other hand, give greater attention to public participation and education. The evidence refines assumptions about council-manager roles in the formation of cooperative agreements, with important implications for local government management."
10.2307_977414	2000	"What are the key challenges for the public sector at present, and what will the future public service look like if it is to meet these challenges? These questions were put to public-sector leaders at a conference at the Wye River Plantation in June 1999. The leaders agreed on aspects of a broad vision for the future and the urgent need for a detailed debate on the transition questions that arose."
10.2307_3843938	2006	"Scholars and practitioners agree that homeland security policy implementation is contingent on a strong system of intergovernmental relations. The responsibilities associated with the homeland security mission, often mandated, cut across federal, state, and local boundaries. Local-level stakeholders are especially important players in the implementation process. This article presents a local perspective on the way intergovernmental relations have changed-and the reasons for those changes-since 9/11. Results of a survey of county and city officials in Florida provide evidence that intergovernmental cooperation has improved as a result of federal and state mandates. These results are refined by an analysis of the effects of specific local characteristics and the quality and quantity of vertical and horizontal networks on intergovernmental cooperation and local preparedness. Homeland security appears to be a policy area in which mandated cooperation and coordination-in a time and place of urgency-have actually strengthened the intergovernmental system."
10.2307_4096602	2006	"Using the theory of representative bureaucracy, this paper investigates the relationship between women police officers and sexual assault reports and arrests. The theoretical contribution is to establish a case in which representation is likely to occur, even without a conscious effort on the part of the bureaucrat involved but simply because of the shared experiences of the bureaucrat and the client. Based on a pooled time series of 60 urban areas over an eight-year time frame, this study finds that the percentage of women police officers is positively associated with the number of reports of sexual assault and with the number of arrests for sexual assault."
10.2307_4624683	2007	"The ""big questions"" associated with Hurricane Katrina and the great flood of New Orleans lie at the intersection of the natural and human-shaped environments. The interactions dominating the intersection of the two environments are found in the social-political-economic system, culture and history, intergovernmental relations, and law. The big questions are not whether specific individuals were to blame for the destruction of lives and property, and they do not begin with the slow and inadequate intergovernmental response to the disaster. Instead, the big questions involve the roles of individuals, governments, and private markets in creating so-called natural disasters; whether government, through its lead role in the emergency management system, is incompetent, or whether capability and performance in protecting life and property have been eroded through a long-term ""hollowing out"" process; and whether Katrina's lessons will be learned or merely noted."
10.2307_977591	2003	"Government performance is an enduring concern for students of public management, public administration, and political science. Government's administrative arrangements and managerial behavior can profoundly influence programmatic content, activities, and outcomes; therefore, considering public management's effects is necessary for a true understanding of public policy and government performance. This article uses data from the Maxwell School's Government Performance Project to examine the relationship between state governments' managerial capacity and a measure of government performance (specifically, state policy priorities). We find that state management capacity has direct effects on state policy commitments: States possessing higher levels of management capacity tend to favor programmatic areas that distribute societal benefits widely (that is, collective benefits) as opposed to narrowly (that is, particularized benefits). Our analysis demonstrates that public interest group activity, government ideology, and citizen ideology each have significant, predictable effects on state policy commitments. Thus, our findings place managerial capacity alongside other more commonly studied state characteristics as an important influence on government activities."
10.2307_27697911	2009	"The U.S. financial crisis and recession that began in 2007 poses profound challenges for public policy and administration. It also provides useful information about the effects of economic policies. This paper considers the implications of current developments for the use of implied guarantees as an instrument for the use of implied guarantees as an instrument of public policy. It draws on experience with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to argue that implied federal guarantees have a severe disadvantage. Their costs are largely unmeasured, unrecognized in the budget, and unmanaged. Yet their use appears to be increasing in the current crisis. To minimize the costs of the expanded financial safety net, government should measure and manage those costs more effectively. To that end, this paper proposes new budgetary treatments of federal implied guarantees."
10.2307_27697915	2009	"In this essay, the authors explore attitudes toward government privatization of electric utilities across two sets of nations: developed market economies (DMEs) and transition economies (TEs). They utilize generalized hierarchical linear model to analyze individual attitudes nested within these two groups of polities and discover a wide gap between the DME and TE nations in terms of preferences for privatization, with attitudes in DME nations being far more favorable. Attitudes toward the privatization of electricty are explained by a combination of ideological/symbolic predispositions, self-interest, and citizen values/characteristics. The most consistent variables in the model are the ideological/symbolic predispositions, while the weakest are citizen characteristics/values, In terms of self-interest, the analysis indicates that those who work for the public service or a public firm are more likely than others to oppose the privatization of electricity. In contrast to some public administration literature that asserts well-informed and interested citizens will oppose privatization, the authors find no convincing relationships. Instead, the most educated and politically efficacious citizens, as well as those who have confidence in the way democracy works within their nation, are more prone than others to support privatization of electricity."
10.2307_3542641	2005	"In the 1970s Washington State lost a series of legal cases related to Native Americans. These cases exemplify the need for knowledge of federal Indian law-but such knowledge, out of context, is insufficient. Key aspects of federal Indian law are hard to accept because of conflicting stories that Americans already believe. The authors discuss the importance of stories and review commonly believed stories that block acceptance of federal Indian law. They then discuss basic principles of Indian law and distill four questions to help determine tribal jurisdiction. The authors review the Marshal trilogy-three Supreme Court cases that set the foundations of modern Native American law-and show how the legal principles play out in an analysis of three contemporary court cases."
10.2307_40469069	2009	"Globalization stimulates local governments in China and the United States to step up their economic development efforts. What strategies are successful and why? Does industry cluster development lead to higher per capita income? What government infrastructure and incentives stimulate and nurture businesses? This article examines local economic development in China and the United States, comparing strategies and outlining challenging issues. Kuotsai Tom Liou of the University of Central Florida finds that local governments must play the leading role in sustainable development, as a partnership approach promotes collaboration among communities, industries, and other government entities. Policy implications and theoretical issues aimed to promote further comparative studies are presented."
10.2307_25145607	2008	"This article examines learning in networks dealing with conditions of high uncertainty. The author examines the case of a crisis response network dealing with an exotic animal disease outbreak. The article identifies the basic difficulties of learning under crisis conditions. The network had to learn most of the elements taken for granted in more mature structural forms-the nature of the structural framework in which it was working, how to adapt that framework, the role and actions appropriate for each individual, and how to deal with unanticipated problems. The network pursued this learning in a variety of ways, including virtual learning, learning forums, learning from the past, using information systems and learning from other network members. Most critically, the network used standard operating procedures to provide a form of network memory and a command and control structure to reduce the institutional and strategic uncertainty inherent in networks."
10.2307_3110000	2001	"Disciplines of constitutional democracy are based on enduring faith in ennobling higher law and shared responsibility for human dignity. They are demonstrated in commitment to the public good through reasonable practices of civic duty and public service. Fanatical terrorist networks have waged war internationally for at least two decades against such foundations of civilization that have proved to be congenial with global diversity and connectedness. That reality was finally brought home to Americans in devastating September attacks. Conventional understanding is starkly challenged now by the enemies' differences in organization and methods from past wars. For success in this struggle, conditions that foster terrorism must be dealt with; an Antiterrorist Garrison State must differ importantly from some past experience. Today's advanced theories and practices of Interdependent Facilitative States and their public administration are well suited to meeting terrorists' asymmetrical threats."
10.2307_4624613	2007	"Since 1986, presidents have been required to submit an annual National Security Strategy (NSS). Recent years have seen a proliferation of national strategies of other kinds, linked in part to the NSS. The National Security Council, led by the national security advisor and employing its committee system and the interagency process, develops the NSS. The integration of all the necessary elements within the NSS involves an opaque and irregular set of rolling negotiations among national security principals. The 2006 NSS is best viewed in comparison to the 2002 version, which was issued in the immediate aftermath of 9/11. It stipulates that the United States is at war with transnational terrorism fueled by a perversion of Islam and proposes stable democracy as the primary solution, supported by aggressive efforts to control the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the option of taking preemptive military action. Criteria for assessing national security strategies can be process oriented or results based."
10.2307_3542552	2005	"While attention has been paid to a few cities and counties exhibiting effective performance-measurement systems, most U.S. local governments have been active in the development and use of performance measurement for several decades. This research examines the effects of performance-measurement information on budgetary decision making, communication, and other operations of U.S. local governments. Data are drawn from a national survey of city and county administrators and budgeters that included nearly 300 governments. Findings indicate the use of performance measurement by local departments is pervasive, although survey respondents are less enthusiastic about measurement effectiveness. Study results show subtle distinctions between city and county officials in their use of performance measurement for budgetary purposes and processes. Research findings indicate the consistent, active integration of measures throughout the budget process is important in determining real budget and communication effects in local governments."
10.2307_3110187	2002	"Increasingly, public administration in the United States operates in a densely interconnected international system in which local decisions and actions may trigger global repercussions-and vice versa-and the fate of communities in one region is bound to the choices of decision makers elsewhere. Administrative actors have become enmeshed in a complicated, interwoven pattern of governance in ways that shape actions, issues, and opportunities for influencing administrative agencies at national, state, and local levels. These developments call for a critical reappraisal of our inherited notions of governance, management, and accountability. Terrorist tragedy and responses to it call attention to these themes, but they apply broadly across the spectrum of governance challenges. To demonstrate this point, we analyze some implications of transnational governance for the institutions and practices of U.S. public management, with particular attention to another subject: environmental policy and management. A conclusion is that the public administration community must adjust traditional practices to facilitate the effective management of the global processes that, in turn, reshape the world."
10.2307_3542463	2003	"Change is a ubiquitous theme in management literature, but empirical studies that seek to draw lessons from the experience of managing change are rare. By investigating patterns of change management in six Australian federal agencies, we elicit a number of factors contributing to success-though ""success"" is itself not a clear-cut concept in this area. We found support for a number of broad themes already apparent in the literature and suggest that change processes that have the support of the workforce require good leadership, an appropriate model of change, some room for negotiation and compromise, and well-planned communication."
10.2307_3542509	2005	"Hong Kong has been depicted as an administrative state where the civil service is insulated from political and societal forces and enjoys a stable pattern of growth in rewards and status. In these respects, it is similar to other Asian developmental states. In Asia, as in the West, traditions underlying the administrative state are being challenged. The Hong Kong civil service has recently come under serious criticism as a result of a major fiscal crisis and a series of administrative failures, while the unelected status of the chief executive is a focus of growing protest. What is the reform capacity of the Hong Kong bureaucracy in these circumstances? What is the likely trajectory of administrative reform, and can we expect Western models of the neo-administrative state to be relevant and appropriate to Hong Kong and, by extension, to the rest of Asia?"
10.2307_40469068	2009	"The decline in popularity of New Public Management worldwide reinvigorated the search for a new paradigm in the field of public administration. Several alternatives to New Public Management, such as the New Governance and Public Value paradigms, have gained prominence in recent years. Despite tensions among these paradigms, exceptional challenges for public administration teaching programs exist. Xun Wu and Jingwei He of the National University of Singapore compiled data on public administration and management courses from 48 top master of public administration degree programs in China and the United States. This essay analyzes how competing paradigms influenced the selection of course content and pedagogical foci in professional training curricula. The authors conclude that in order to take advantage of an unprecedented opportunity provided by the rapid, global expansion of professional education in public administration, there is an urgent need to find a synthesized theoretical framework."
10.2307_3542625	2004	"Public meetings are frequently attacked as useless democratic rituals that lack deliberative qualities and fail to give citizens a voice in the policy process. Do public meetings have a role to play in fostering citizen participation in policy making? While many of the criticisms leveled against public meetings have merit, I argue that they do. In this article, I explore the functions that city council and school board meetings serve. While they may not be very good at accomplishing their primary goal of giving citizens the opportunity to directly influence decisions made by governing bodies, they can be used to achieve other ends, such as sending information to officials and setting the agenda. As a complement to deliberative political structures, public meetings have a role to play by offering a venue in which citizens can achieve their political goals, thereby enhancing governmental accountability and responsiveness."
10.2307_977589	2003	"Public services in many states have been placed under federal court supervision. In our 1991 PAR article, we examined the implications of the federal judicial decisions in supervising the Kansas City Metropolitan School District for the ""new triumviate"" governing public services-public officials, legislators, and judges. In this article, we examine judicial decisions affecting the same school district a decade later to reveal the impact of judicial supervision on the school district and to discern the implications for policy termination. We find that, once begun, judicially mandated federal court supervision of public institutions is not readily terminated, even pursuant to the wishes of the United States Supreme Court."
10.2307_3542680	2006	"In their essay ""When Efficiency Is Unbelievable: Normative Lessons from 30 Years of City-County Consolidations,"" published in the July/August 2005 issue ofPAR, Leland and Thurmaier make an important contribution to understanding how city-county consolidation occurs. They revise the widely accepted Rosenbaum and Kammerer model of consolidation and posit that ""strong arguments"" based on economic development, especially in the absence of organized opposition, led to victory for consolidation advocates. In this response, we argue that efforts to identify a set of arguments or charter provisions that will lead to successful consolidation are misguided. The real story in consolidation campaigns is how participants use heresthetical arguments in an effort to turn their opponents into political losers. What makes arguments strong or weak is not their substantive policy focus, but how they are structured."
10.2307_3110019	2002	"Measuring management in networks is difficult because the allocation of managerial resources in network structures is fluid-that is, the utilization of management behaviors varies across time and space within a given program or project. As a means of focusing the network management research agenda, propositions based in contingency logic are suggested to test ideas regarding when, why, and how network managers undertake these behaviors. The propositions are intended to identify the vast inventory of network management behaviors and, most importantly, determine how the manager strategically matches behaviors with the governing context. Suggestions are also offered to help us understand how and why managerial resources are reallocated over time and space. The proposed research agenda is offered as a guide to help us determine which choices are most likely to be effective."
10.2307_3110360	2002	"The Federal Home Loan Bank System has come under sharp criticism in recent years, and the question has been raised as to whether it still has a public purpose. In this article, we ask what leaders in the Federal Home Loan Banks view their institutions' purpose to be in light of legislative changes to their mandates in 1989 and 1999. Based on interviews with FHLB executive managers and board members, we identify three clearly distinguishable views of these institutions' mission: housing finance, support for the viability of community financial institutions, and support for housing and community development. We go on to identify some of the implications of these distinctive views for the behavior of the FHLBs and for their governance structures."
10.2307_3542537	2004	"One obvious aspect of public management decisions and decision making has largely escaped attention-decision content. We examine the effects of decision content by asking the following questions for budget cutback and information technology decisions: How does content affect the time required for decision making? How does content affect who participates? How does content affect the decision criteria employed? How does content affect the information quality used in the decision-making process and red tape? The results suggest that information technology and budget cutback decisions differ in important ways. For information technology decisions, cost-effectiveness is not a significant criterion, average decision time is much longer, and decisions are generally viewed as permanent and stable. For cutback decisions, cost-effectiveness is a significant criterion, decisions are made much more quickly, and they are viewed as unstable and changeable. Surprisingly, decision content does not appear to affect the number of participants."
10.2307_3110453	2000	"In a continuing effort to reform and reinvent the way public organizations do business, the outsourcing of services has become a popular tool, particularly as resource constraints limit options available to governments. All too often, the decision is made, for reasons of ideology or resource constraints, to outsource services without giving careful consideration to the impact of privatization on the core missions of an agency, or whether privatization, in fact, offers real cost savings. Purchasing tools designed for traditional commodity purchases are often grossly unsuited for making decisions on specialized technical services. This article suggests a process for the evaluation of an option to outsource laboratory services. It suggests that, prior to contracting or privatizing services, the concerned agency should evaluate: ? the impact on the agency's core mission ? the availability, stability, and reliability of private sector service providers ? the relative costs of internal and external (public or private sector) service providers ? the potential impact on regulatory enforcement ? the ability to monitor the performance of external providers ? potential conflicts of interest Based on this model, the ongoing internal evaluation of services offers public agencies management tools to obtain the best value for the taxpayer dollar, not only in terms of the raw cost per test, but also in managing the quality of the services."
10.2307_3109950	1999	"Is gender-based occupational segregation in U.S. municipal bureaucracies related to the policy functions of municipal departments? Employing a large, previously unavailable data set obtained from the U.S. Equal Opportunity Commission the authors investigate gender-based municipal employment patterns in discrete functional policy areas. The authors draw on Lowi's (1985) conceptual framework by arguing that the structures, processes, and relationships associated with different policy types will affect personnel practices in municipal government bureaucracies. An examination of administrative and professional positions in U.S. cities from 1985 through 1993 indicates that even though cities have achieved gender balance in redistributive functions, women are severely underrepresented in distributive and regulatory agencies. Because salaries in redistributive agencies are, on average, lower than those in distributive and regulatory agencies, the authors argue that occupational segregation is associated with salary inequities. Although the authors uncover some evidence for the erosion of glass walls in distributive and regulatory agencies, the pace of change has been slow."
10.2307_977562	1998	"Should we care whether administrators can predict citizen perceptions? This paper examines whether administrator predictions of citizen views could be a useful adjunct to citizen surveys. Where previous research on citizen satisfaction has addressed principally the citizen viewpoint, the authors argue that asking administrators to predict citizen perspectives can have a number of benefits, ranging from showing administrators where their perceptions of the public are accurate or inaccurate to improving employee morale (if, as expected, administrators are pessimistic about citizen opinions). To assess these possible benefits, this paper compares findings from two surveys in the City of Atlanta: (1) a first survey that asked a sample of city residents about a broad range of city services and facilities and (2) a second survey that asked administrators from a number of municipal departments to predict citizen responses on selected questions. Findings show that municipal administrators tend to be pessimistic about citizen ratings, expecting more negative evaluations than citizens actually report. Those tendencies vary among departments, however, for a variety of reasons. Overall, the results suggest that administrator predictions are worth considering as an additional component to citizen surveys."
10.2307_3109952	1999	"This study analyzes state government credit quality over time. We find that overall state-government credit quality declined markedly from 1970 to 1995. The decline was associated with a substantial increase in state real per capita debt. Despite the decline, the current overall credit quality of the states is solid. In addition, rating agencies expressed significantly different credit evaluations of state governments in 1970, but such differences between rating agencies have evaporated over time."
10.2307_3542506	2005	"This article explores the way public-sector financial managers cope with ethical challenges created by undue political pressure and demands for special treatment. A nationwide survey of financial managers revealed that fiscal stress exacerbates ethical pressure for most financial managers, including chief financial officers (CFOs) and those who report to CFOs. Financial managers do not work in an ethical vacuum; they respond to supervisors who encourage ethical action and to coworkers who demonstrate high standards of personal integrity. Supervisors of CFOs who emphasize political responsiveness in employee evaluations can threaten the ethical behavior of CFOs, while timely feedback can mitigate ethical pressure. In turn, CFOs as supervisors can temper the harsh work environment in fiscally stressed times by encouraging ethical action and by giving adequate feedback to those who report to them."
10.2307_976360	1998	"In an era when governmental managers are being held accountable for performance and procedural accountability is being deemphasized, how should inspectors general be held accountable for their performance? The results-oriented management push provided by executive and legislative initiatives presents an interesting challenge for oversight agents such as inspectors general. This study examines the current role of the inspector general offices in the maintenance of accountability of federal programs. Survey data collected in 1996 is compared to similar data obtained in a 1992 survey. Findings reveal a growing concern over declining resources and the ambiguity of their roles, especially as traditional audits are increasingly abandoned in favor of performance audits."
10.2307_3110018	2002	"Public policies addressing complex issues require transjurisdictional solutions, challenging hierarchical modes of public-service delivery. Interlocal agreements (ILAs) are long-established service-delivery instruments for local governments, and research suggests they are plentiful, with a majority of cities and counties involved in at least one ILA. Although ILAs are an established feature of local government operations, previous research is atheoretical, largely descriptive, and unsystematic. This article explores ILAs as social network phenomena, identifying the rationales and underlying values for various ILAs, central and peripheral actors, and brokering roles. In particular, we explore the utility of incorporating network exchange theory into public management network models to identify the relative power of actors in network exchange relationships. We find that a ""norm of reciprocity"" culture predominates an economizing value as the rationale for an abundance of service-oriented policy networks that produce a picket-fence regionalism of ILA participation in the Kansas City metropolitan area."
10.2307_4624595	2007	"Government contracting, especially for information technology products and services, has accelerated in recent years in the United States. Drawing on the insights of privatization studies, the authors examine the economic and political rationales underpinning government decisions to contract out e-government services. This article tests the extent to which economic and political rationality influence governments' contracting decisions using data from multiple sources: a survey conducted by National Association of State Chief Information Officers, a survey by the National Association of State Procurement Officers, the Council of State Legislatures, and macro-level state data from the U.S. Census Bureau. Important factors affecting the state-level contracting decision are population size, market size, the competitiveness of the bidding process, the professional management of contracts, the partisan composition of legislatures, and political competition. Political rationales appear to play a major role in state contracting decisions. Some arguments associated with markets and economic rationality are clearly politically motivated."
10.2307_4624623	2007	"The construction of public problems has a lasting influence on implementation in a given policy subsystem. National and sociopolitical contexts influence issue definition differently across nations. However, the degree to which nation-specific issue definition takes place has been insufficiently explored. In recent years, the growing incidence of autism has led to a quest for causal factors. One hypothesis posits that the use of mercury in vaccines may be a culprit. This paper examines the definition of the mercury and autism issue in Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom, and the United States. Insights into the comparative elements of issue definition are suggested by the case. These insights are of particular importance to administrators, as agencies are deeply involved as objects and actors in the process of issue definition and are often responsible for implementing new and redefined policies."
10.2307_977309	1997	"Interviews with 104 child care inspectors in four states (Colorado, North Carolina, Oklahoma, and Pennsylvania) offer glimpses of the enforcement tools preferred by inspectors under different regulatory circumstances. Inspectors in the four states diverge often enough to raise doubts about the convergence thesis of Day and Klein (1987). An adversarial approach is more apparent in North Carolina and Pennsylvania; an accommodationist approach is more apparent in Colorado and Oklahoma. Legal, political, and administrative variables help to explain these differences."
10.2307_3542523	2005	"There are approximately 800,000 501(c)(3) nonprofits large enough to register with the federal government. Add churches, foundations, and nonprofits too small to register, and the number is far higher than that. The potential for nonprofits to engage their clients and members in community affairs and public policy making is, in theory, enormous. Yet, perversely, nonprofits are regulated by the federal government in such a way that discourages the involvement of their followers in the public policymaking process. This is a problem, not simply because we social scientists believe civic engagement is a good thing, but because these regulatory standards sharply skew public participation. Although middle- and upper-class individuals have many organizations that engage and mobilize them, nonprofits usually are the only organizations that work on behalf of the poor, those without health insurance, immigrants, the disabled, and most other marginalized constituencies. Put bluntly, federal law works against the participation of the most disadvantaged in society."
10.2307_3542555	2005	"This article provides an analytic framework to guide regimes that are designing or implementing decentralization programs. It is based on a comparison of three Asian cases of fast-track decentralization. The framework suggests that regimes contemplating devolution must face fundamental issues of (1) background support, (2) culture and institutions, and (3) technical design and sequencing. It can be used by regimes to compare the relative difficulty of fundamental challenges to decentralization with their own capacity and potential for effective response. The three regimes responded similarly to the first two issues and differed in how they performed technical activities to implement the decentralization programs. Within this technical sequence, the regimes varied widely in performance. In that the Philippine program has attained better performance so far, the different responses of that regime are significant. More research is required to explain differences in technical performance in the Philippines and other similar programs and to attribute measures of decentralization success to these differences."
10.2307_977619	2001	"What are states doing with respect to human resource practices to improve government operations? Using data collected by the Government Performance Project, this article identifies emerging trends and innovations in state personnel systems. Specifically, it provides a national comparison in the areas of personnel authority, workforce planning, selection, classification, and performance management. Results show that many states are delegating authority for personnel functions to agencies and managers, shifting their human resource missions to being more proactive and collaborative with agencies, and adopting performance management systems that integrate organizational and individual goals. In short, many states are investing considerable resources to modernize their human resource management systems."
10.2307_25145596	2008	"The origins of the influential American philosophy classical pragmatism and of American public administration overlap. On the surface, it appears that classical pragmatism had no influence on the emerging field of American public administration. Why were the two never properly wed? This essay first traces the historical connections that link public administration and classical pragmatism. Second, using a framework that is simple to remember, the tenets of classical pragmatism-practical, pluralistic, participatory, and provisional-are explored and applied to public administration. The marriage of classical pragmatism and public administration should prove endlessly fertile."
10.2307_4624590	2007	"How are nonprofits using information technology to enhance mission-related outcomes and boost organizational performance? The authors examine a large-scale survey of nonprofits' technology planning, acquisition, and implementation to assess the strategic use of IT in these organizations. They evaluate nonprofits' strategic technology-use potential by examining IT-related competencies and practices that are critical for the successful strategic employment of technology resources. Several promising developments are found, alongside significant deficits in the strategic utilization of IT, especially in the areas of financial sustainability, strategic communications and relationship building, and collaborations and partnerships. To boost IT's mission-related impact, nonprofits must enhance their organizational capacities in long-term IT planning, budgeting, staffing, and training; performance measurement; Internet and Web site capabilities; and the vision, support, and involvement of senior management."
10.2307_3843941	2006	"Unlike past American wars, the current war on terror has not been associated with a centrally proffered narrative providing some guidance and orientation for those administering government services under state-of-war conditions. War is as much a cultural endeavor as it is a military undertaking and the absence of a clear sensemaking narrative was detected in this study of public administrators from three agencies with varying proximity to the conflict. Q-methodology was used to explore the way individuals processed the war narratives put forth by the Bush administration and reported in the media immediately following the September 11 attacks. Though no distinct state-of-war narratives were found among the public administrators in this study, there are clear indications that latent narratives reflecting local political and organizational task environments have emerged."
10.2307_977522	2003	"The literature on council-manager government often mentions the political difficulties that city managers face with their elected officials and constituent groups. In addition, the generally accepted route to success for city managers is to move to larger and better-paying cities. As a result of these push-and-pull factors, the average tenure of city managers is short. There are, however, a relatively small number of city managers who enjoy long tenure in single cities. The authors identified the 146 city managers who are serving and have served for at least 20 years the same city and sought to determine the factors leading to their long service. The survey indicates that long-serving city managers are more likely to be found in smaller cities that are homogeneous and politically stable. The majority of these city managers are white males with above-average educational levels, strong support from elected officials, and personal commitments to the cities they serve."
10.2307_27697881	2009	"As pressures to engage in cross-agency and cross-sectoral partnerships become more widespread, information sharing becomes an ever more critical and daunting aspect of public administration. In this edition's exchange among scholars and practitioners, Sharon S. Dawes, Anthony M. Cresswell, and Theresa A. Pardo of the Center for Technology in Government at the University at Albany, State University of New York, offer a ""baker's dozen"" of lessons they have culled from research and their own action research agenda studying the building of public sector knowledge networks in New York over the past 15 years. Grounded in a multidisciplinary, experientially based, and street-level view of the obstacles to and tactics for building successful public sector knowledge networks, the authors' warning to conceive collaborative information-sharing efforts as governance rather than information technology challenges is advice that practitioners ignore at their peril. Readers will find a more extensive e-version of this article on the PAR Web site (go to aspanet.org, click on PAR, then on the Theory to Practice icon). They also will find expert e-commentary on the article (plus the authors' response) from Lisa Bingham, Indiana University-Bloomington; Sharon Caudle, Bush School of Government and Public Service, Texas A&M University; Louise K. Comfort, University of Pittsburgh; and Costis Toregas, American University."
10.2307_976363	1998	"Institutional constancy is a concept that has been proposed to help explain how, given the close scrutiny that now pertains to such activities, organizations can effectively manage large technical systems that involve hazardous materials with potentially significant long-term consequences. One organization that has effectively managed within such an environment for almost 50 years is the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program. The program's management methods involve careful organization, meticulous program execution, the achievement of technical excellence, close management of program and contractor personnel assets, and effective communications. The attributes of the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program compare well to those that have been ascribed to organizations that exhibit institutional constancy. The program demonstrates both trustworthiness and the capacity to enact programs. The program's consistent emphasis on the technical competence of its personnel is a distinctive feature. The opinions expressed herein are those of the authors. They do not represent the views of either the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Directorate or those of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board."
10.2307_3110362	2002	"Social scientists traditionally have described local governments as competing with each other for residents and businesses. But in a number of metropolitan areas in the United States, local governmental officials have formed groups voluntarily to enhance the economic development of multijurisdictional areas. This article develops a theory that asserts the key determinants of the formation of these regional partnerships for economic development are cooperative norms-or a tradition of regional cooperation-and need. The theory also posits that norms influence regional partnerships' organizational structure and processes. Hypotheses are tested empirically using data from all metropolitan areas in the United States and responses to a national survey of regional partnerships for economic development. Results provide some support for the theory that norms and need are both positively related to the formation of regional partnerships for economic development. Support is weak that norms are related to the organizational characteristics of regional partnerships for economic development."
10.2307_4624668	2007	"In attempting to move beyond normative-based theories and simple descriptive accounts of extra-electoral citizen participation, this article explores the biases that are inherent in citizen participation mechanisms and proposes a model to estimate when and why different participation mechanisms might be used during ""citizen participation games."" Mechanism bias is explored using a matrix designed to gauge how different mechanisms afford different degrees of agenda-setting and decision-making control to citizens and state officials. Attention then turns to leadership capacity to explain the mechanisms through which teams of citizens and government officials might play their participatory games. A second matrix suggests that the choice of mechanism may vary considerably depending on whether rookie leaders are matched against other rookies, novices, or expert opponents. Though the model suggests that mechanisms affording less control to citizens are more common, it also implies that in the future, citizen players may demand mechanisms affording them more control as their leaders gain experience."
10.2307_3843901	2006	"In the policy implementation field, theorists are challenged to develop stepwise frameworks that facilitate the implementation of public policy. This case studies the implementation of a Medicare charity care policy in a small rural hospital using the top-down implementation framework. It offers an overview of top-down implementation theory and a discussion of top-down research findings as they relate to the real implementation experiences of hospital administrators. The case presents six recommendations for the effective implementation of a new policy on the front lines."
10.2307_40469079	2009	"Successful adoption of collaborative service delivery requires that governments develop better capacity to handle potential pitfalls. In this essay Yijia fing of Fudan University and E. S. Savas of the City University of New York provide a framework that compares and contrasts the management practices in China and America. Both nations favor collaborative service delivery and engage in it extensively. Can China's state-affiliated strategy and the United States' competition-oriented strategy both work effectively? Such distinct systems, embedded in vastly different socioeconomic and political institutional environments decisively influence the effectiveness of collaborative service delivery management in the two countries."
10.2307_4624588	2007	"As ever more private resources are held in foundations and nonprofit organizations' endowment funds, more scholars and practitioners are demanding that these assets be put to good use immediately. Those favoring the preservation of capital-primarily representing private foundations-sound unnecessarily cautious. This article examines endowment conservation from a variety of critical angles, finding strong rationales for both conserving and liquidating endowments. Policy responses to the buildup of endowment assets include requiring a faster payout or regulating the amount and type of administrative expenses included in annual payout. This article reviews the relationship of the business cycle and wealth distribution to annual giving. The most prudent course, in view of the cyclical nature of giving as well as the substantial generational wealth currently held by elders, appears to be to conserve significant assets now in order to establish a stable flow of future social benefits."
10.2307_4096575	2006	"Many tout the benefits of collaborative environmental management as an alternative to centralized planning and command and control regulation, but the excitement over collaborative processes has not been matched by evidence that these processes actually improve the environment. The most crucial question in collaborative environmental management remains unanswered and often unasked: To what extent does collaboration lead to improved environmental outcomes? We know much about why collaboration is occurring and how collaborative processes and outputs vary. The primary goal of future research on collaborative environmental management should be to demonstrate whether collaboration improves environmental conditions more than traditional processes and newer market-based processes. Collaboration is not a panacea; it is a choice that policy makers and public managers should make based on evidence about expected outcomes."
10.2307_977600	2001	"This study examines a population of United Way-affiliated nonprofit organizations in Massachusetts (1) to test hypotheses generated by previous research on relationships between government funding and specific nonprofit organizational characteristics, (2) to compare differences in organizational characteristics between nonprofits receiving higher percentages of revenues from the United Way and from government sources, and (3) to explore associations between government funding and United Way and underexamined characteristics, including use of commercial income and racial diversity of organizational membership. The study supports previous research on the relationship between government funding and nonprofit characteristics, with one notable exception-less administrative complexity was associated with higher percentages of government funding. The study also finds differences in organizational characteristics between nonprofits with higher proportions of government funding and those with higher percentages of United Way funding, including organization size, number of board members, administrative complexity, use of volunteers, and the racial diversity of boards, staff, and volunteers."
10.2307_25145649	2008	"Are there conditions under which minority bureaucrats are less likely to provide active representation? The authors address this question by testing the link between passive and active representation for race in a police department and in the particular instance of racial profiling. Literature from three areas-racial profiling, representative bureaucracy, and police socialization-is brought together. The findings support the hypothesis that organizational socialization can hinder the link between passive and active representation. Furthermore, the authors find that the presence of black police officers is related to an increase in racial profiling in the division. This finding was unexpected and raises several important questions regarding active representation and race."
10.2307_976361	1998	"Governments are increasingly concerned with personnel costs. This article investigates determinants of teacher salaries in Illinois school districts (Fiscal Year 1989-1990) from three perspectives: local characteristics of the school districts, the ability of citizens and communities to pay, and composition of the property tax base. Each perspective is examined at four salary levels. Of the local characteristics, districts with large numbers of teachers or more experienced teachers pay higher salaries. Of the ""ability to pay"" indicators, districts with higher percentages of college graduates in the community or more tax base per pupil are more likely to pay more. Of the tax base variables, districts with a greater reliance on agricultural property in the tax base are more likely to pay teachers less. Districts with a higher reliance on commercial property in the tax base pay higher salaries as they export the costs of salaries to nonresidents. Overall, the effect of the composition of the tax base on salaries is the most important finding. These findings might generalize to employees of other local governments that rely on property taxation as a primary source of revenue."
10.2307_3843921	2006	"The use of interorganizational relationships such as collaboration, partnerships, and alliances between public, private, and nonprofit organizations for the delivery of human services has increased. This article contributes to the growing body of knowledge on collaboration by exploring one kind of interorganizational relationship-interagency collaboration-in the field of early care and education. It examines variations within interagency collaborations and their impact on management and program outcomes. The findings show that interagency collaboration has a clear impact on management, program, and client outcomes: Specifically, the intensity of the collaborative relationship has a positive and statistically significant impact on staff compensation, staff turnover, and school readiness."
10.2307_3542676	2006	"The literature on the implications of electoral ""bureaucracy bashing"" for public management is thin. This is partly because of the difficulty of defining basic terms and measuring results in meaningful ways. Using focus group data, this article explores how senior federal managers perceive campaign bureaucracy bashing and assess its consequences. The participants perceive that candidate-based bashing affects federal management on two levels: one emotional, the other programmatic. The emotional impact is pronounced, producing frustration and hostility from senior managers toward political candidates, political appointees, and the media. Senior managers report that bashing adversely affects policy implementation through low morale, poor recruitment, and training and by fostering an environment of distrust toward bureaucracy. Grounded in a diverse literature relating to public administration, the presidency, campaigns and elections, and political communication, this inquiry finds that senior managers confirm many of the speculations these works raise about how bashing affects public employees and public policy."
10.2307_3110174	2002	"The aftermath of September 11th has seen a worrisome rise in invasive surveillance measures. Both adopted by statute and initiated by agencies, these provisions provide unprecedented powers for government agents to investigate suspects and search individuals, whether they are directly involved in terrorism or not. The prevailing wisdom has been that the American people will accept these restrictions as the natural cost of heightened security, and initial evidence suggests the public has been willing to tolerate greater limits on civil liberties. However, over time such support will erode, leaving in place permanent restrictions on civil liberties that not only will concern Americans, but also may turn them against government officials and civic participation. Thus, contrary to many interpretations of September 11th, this article argues that the policy response has only sown the seeds for greater detachment from and dissatisfaction with government as the public becomes increasingly separated from the workings and operations of public policy."
10.2307_4624687	2007	"When Hurricane Katrina made landfall on the Mississippi Gulf Coast in August 2005, it immediately overwhelmed the abilities of local and state emergency management officials to respond to the ensuing disaster. Although the U.S. Coast Guard and some military units were on scene shortly after the passage of the storm, there seemed to be interminable delays before the military forces began to arrive in numbers to both provide humanitarian relief and secure the affected areas. This article analyzes the response of the National Guard, active-duty military, and Coast Guard forces through the lens of coordination. We find evidence of the successful use of both traditional hierarchical and network-based coordination; we also find support for Donald Kettl's idea of ""contingent coordination."""
10.2307_3110096	2003	"This article presents the results of research designed to test participatory democracy assertions that high-quality public participation can affect participants' beliefs in desirable ways. It examines the relationships between exposure to quality participation and participant beliefs about the trustworthiness and responsiveness of a public agency and the value of including different viewpoints in public meetings. After participation in quality project meetings, participants were significantly more likely to believe the agency was responsive to public concerns. The results indicate that some specific aspects of quality participation are positively associated with expectations about the agency's responsiveness and performance. Positive associations were also found with tolerance for differences of opinion. These results have important implications for public administrators and theorists of participatory democracy."
10.2307_3542522	2005	"Citizen participation in government decision making, especially at the local level, has received heightened attention with regard to its promise for improved governance. The overarching administrative ethos of the administrative state creates barriers to citizen participation in governance. Developing and nurturing citizen participation in the presence of the administrative state is a significant challenge. Drawing on the literary tradition of public engagement and learning, this article models a developmental strategy of participation that offers one avenue for achieving meaningful partnerships between city agencies and neighborhood councils in a metropolitan environment. We present a model of citizen participation that brings neighborhood councils and city agencies together in a collaborative partnership. This model is based on the literature on citizen participation, which focuses on the significance of interactive processes in building trust among participants and creating mutual understanding and agreement."
10.2307_977475	1999	"This article faddresses the implications of political executives losing control over the implementation of their policy following managerial reforms put in place under the auspices of the new public management. Such loss, in turn, makes them hunger for more control over the bureaucracy. The striking outcome of this process is that the senior servants who are removed from policy making and thus supposed to be less political (i. e., less in the line of fire and more secure as a result) find their positions becoming more insecure due to the political executives' desire for more control. This outcome is best formulated as a paradox: Investing in the public administration's managerial capital (i. e., giving public managers more authority to manage programs) is most likely to result in political executives' disinvesting in the public administration's political capital (i. e., giving ministers greater capacity for setting central directions and priorities and intervention in personnel matters) so as to resolve the problems of loss of control over policy implementation raised by the managerial reforms put in place under the new public management. This hypothesis is strongly supported by a comparative analysis of changes in senior officials' tenure security and protection from external competition in Australia, New Zealand, Canada, the United Kingdom, Austria, and Malta between 1980 and 1996."
10.2307_3110181	2002	"What are the implications of the war on terrorism for the progress made to date and the likely future of environmental security efforts in the national security state? To put the evolving post-September 11th environmental security challenge facing the U.S. military in perspective, this article begins with a synopsis of the doctrinal, tactical, operational, and regulatory dilemmas faced by the U.S. military in the post-Cold War era. Next, the article reviews how and why the 1990s bequeathed a set of misaligned administrative systems that make existing and future progress in balancing national security with environmental and natural resources protection extremely vulnerable to shifts in the political economy surrounding this issue in the post-September 11th era. The article concludes with a review of how September 11th has affected the patterns of politics surrounding this issue since those tragic events. Despite recent increases in the defense budget, this analysis suggests that conflict over this issue will continue, rendering structural realignment a daunting challenge and further complicating the integration of national security and environmental and natural resources responsibilities in the post-September 11th era."
10.2307_3110329	2002	"Requirements for outcomes-based performance management are increasing performance-evaluation activities at all government levels. Research on public-sector performance management, however, points to problems in the design and management of these systems and questions their effectiveness as policy tools for increasing governmental accountability. In this article, I analyze experimental data and the performance-management experiences of federal job-training programs to estimate the influence of public management and system-design factors on program outcomes and impacts. I assess whether relying on administrative data to measure program outcomes (rather than impacts) produces information that might misdirect program managers in their performance-management activities. While the results of empirical analyses confirm that the use of administrative data in performance management is unlikely to produce accurate estimates of true program impacts, they also suggest these data can still generate useful information for public managers about policy levers that can be manipulated to improve organizational performance."
10.2307_976653	1997	"This article addresses probably the most important yet least investigated question regarding ethics education in graduate degree granting programs in public administration in the United States: What difference does ethics education make in the life and behavior of men and women in pursuit of public service careers? Building on a 1995 survey of NASPAA member schools, the author is able to identify a small number of schools that (a) require MPA students to complete an ethics course, and (b) have had this requirement in place for at least five years. MPA alumni who graduated (1990-1995) from four participating schools that meet these criteria were surveyed in 1996. The survey results indicate that ethics education is having a positive influence on the graduates of these programs but that other factors are also influential. Perhaps most importantly, the data suggest that the ethical environment of the educational program must be taken into account in order to obtain a more complete understanding of ethics education outcomes."
10.2307_976656	1997	"It is hardly arguable that the behaviors of supervisors influence the careers of their subordinates. In the public sector, what types of supervisory behaviors adversely affect the careers of subordinates? Given the increasing diversity of employees in the workplace, do members of different ethnic groups and men and women experience these career-impeding supervisory behaviors differently? Is there a relationship between employees' experiences of such behaviors and their job satisfaction? These questions and the answers to them are very important if effective courses are to be developed to train managers to manage work force diversity. This study identifies career-impeding supervisory behaviors as reported by African American and European American professionals in New Jersey state government. African Americans experienced career-impeding supervisory behaviors more than European Americans, but gender difference was not significant. The more employees reported experiencing career-impeding supervisory behaviors, the lower the employees' job satisfaction. European Americans were more satisfied with their jobs than African Americans, but gender difference was again not significant."
10.2307_977479	1999	"Contrary to the expectations of many, the Supreme Court has not backed away from its assault on patronage practices. It continues to clarify and extend patronage prohibitions. Illinois has the distinction of being the major battleground of reform as the courts use Illinois cases to progressively eliminate patronage practices. The Court's attack on patronage began in Illinois, and the latest decision banning pinstripe patronage is an Illinois case. With its distinction as the home of the last great political machine, Chicago also has the distinction of being the first major city to be under a court-approved and monitored program to ensure the end of its past patronage practices. The author analyzes the progressive erosion of patronage practices with a major focus on Illinois cases. The author also discusses some of the unresolved issues from the court cases and assesses some of the impacts of the court-monitored hiring system on Chicago's personnel function."
10.2307_3110213	2002	"This article reports on an exploratory study of ethical reasoning among public administrators in Russia. Survey interviews and focus group follow-ups with civil servants participating in graduate training programs at the Russian Academy of Public Service provide information about their preferred mode of ethical reasoning; the demographic, attitudinal, organizational, and professional factors associated with that reasoning; and the behavioral choices implied. Using a sample of 113 public officials who represent a broad spectrum of regions in Russia, this study assesses moral reasoning, examines variables associated with alternative models, and compares these responses with findings from studies conducted in Poland and the United States. Based on this exploratory study, we suggest implications for theory, research, and practice."
10.2307_977500	2001	"In July 1995, ASPA's Endowment Board established the Donald C. Stone Fund to honor the memory of this public administration legend. Income from this fund is used to sponsor a lecture or symposium at ASPA's national conference, which reflects Stone's varied interests and contributions to the field. This year marked the sixth Donald C. Stone Lecture. On March 13, Ferrel Heady was ASPA's Stone Lecturer and gave the following speech."
10.2307_4624561	2007	"Performance management and citizen participation are being used by local governments to improve government accountability and responsiveness. In some cases, local governments are integrating these two trends. One area of local government in which this trend has not been assessed is special districts. This paper uses data from a study of nine special districts in the state of Texas to fill this void. To assess citizen participation in performance management among the districts, we interviewed district managers, analyzed minutes from governing board meetings, and conducted citizen focus groups in three regions of the state. Our findings suggest that although districts may not yet be in tune with the latest performance management trends, they are making efforts to engage citizens in other ways. We recommend ways that districts can build on these experiences and more effectively incorporate citizens in the development, analysis, and reporting of performance measures."
10.2307_4624620	2007	"Pursuant to its extensive program of market reforms, China's government tried to restructure itself to support a market-dominated economy. Reform efforts have included elements that are familiar to scholars of public administration: streamlining government, strengthening bureaucratic capacity, distancing government from firms, and establishing independent regulators. But how deep have these reforms been, and with what ultimate goals? This article examines a crucial segment of the economy-China's so-called lifeline industries-to show how reforms to China's economic governance system have been mapped onto an existing system characterized by extreme institutional fragmentation and an inability to imbue new governmental bodies with authority. Moreover, for these key industrial sectors, the Chinese party-state's strong interests in ownership, revenues, and social policy dictate that it use a variety of tools to protect these interests."
10.2307_3542583	2005	"The relationship between administrative service performance and citizen satisfaction has been assumed, but not demonstrated, in the application of market models to public service delivery. Although the citizen satisfaction literature cautions that the link between objective and subjective measures of service quality is tenuous at best, public-sector professional organizations define a managerial focus on objective measures of service performance as accountability to citizens for outcomes. What if we're wrong?"
10.2307_976651	1997	"Governmental professionalism is declining. There are many more political appointees in the bureaucracy, and the environment has not been supportive or trusting. But public officials can play a role in restoring the environment for professionalism. The new service orientation may help. Alternatives to the formal structure and senior executives service may also help."
10.2307_3542580	2005	"This article focuses on the use of strategic planning and management processes in municipal governments with populations over 25,000. Strategic planning has been used in municipalities for 20 years now, but little is known about how it is used and the results obtained. In particular, we explore whether municipal governments tie other components of the overall strategic management process to their strategic plans. Findings do not show a dramatic expansion in the use of strategic planning, but there is some evidence of growing sophistication, as demonstrated by links to other management and decision-making activities. Managers were enthusiastic about their experiences with strategic planning and largely satisfied with their achievement of goals and objectives. Overall, we find a raising of the bar as far as strategic planning is concerned, but the use of comprehensive strategic management is only beginning to develop in a small number of leading-edge municipalities."
10.2307_977549	1998	"Recent reforms have added the burdens of social regulation to the difficulties of implementing welfare policy. State and local welfare bureaus have had to develop means to monitor clients to verify that they have complied with behavioral demands. Drawing upon our examination of the Primary Prevention Initiative, a welfare reform implemented in Maryland, we describe and evaluate two procedures that may be used to enforce social regulation. Our findings suggest that implementation difficulties, such as complexity, interorganizational coordination, strategic behavior, fraud, and goal displacement are related to the procedures used to enforce behavioral standards and that such difficulties may compromise some of the supposed benefits of behavioral welfare reform."
10.2307_3542586	2005	"Merit has traditionally served as the foundation of public human resources management (HRM) policy and practice. Today, the concept is more closely associated with compensation (merit pay) than with values that drive behavior in federal HRM. As the Departments of Homeland Security and Defense struggle to create new HRM systems that promote results-oriented government, the question arises, how does merit inform practice in these new systems? In this article, I identify the values that are influencing federal HRM decision making now and develop a model for merit-based HRM systems in a less regulated environment through a view from three lenses: the historical evolution of the merit concept in American government, how merit is treated in the law, and how merit has been applied in Title-5 exempt organizations. This discussion will help to create HRM policies and practices that are grounded in values that managers and employees can embrace and that translate into behaviors that promote both good relationships and results-oriented performance."
10.2307_25145733	2008	"This article examines how electronic funds transfers and electronic benefit transfers have become integral components of digital government. These technologies have forwarded many of the principles of the Winter Commission, including the development of lean, responsive government. The greater efficiency and cost savings for the federal and most state governments have not been achieved without encountering and dealing with serious matters related to customer service, contracting, collaboration, management, and implementation. These issues arise in the normal daily use of electronic payment technologies, but they are magnified in crisis situations, as demonstrated by disaster relief operations during Hurricane Katrina."
10.2307_3110188	2002	"Following the tragic, massive terrorist attacks on the United States in September 2001, many antiterrorist laws, policies, and institutions have emerged to wage war on terrorism. These antiterrorist initiatives have major consequences for individuals, societies, and nations all over the world. Although controversies have proliferated with regard to the implications of counterterrorism for people's basic rights, the debate remains fragmented and often unfocused. This article examines the critical impact of new antiterrorist initiatives on the fundamental rights and responsibilities of citizens and others, with special reference to public administration."
10.2307_977630	1999	"Among the progeny of performance measurement and results-oriented management in the public sector is a growing interest in various forms of benchmarking. Choosing an appropriate form-that is, a form that suits the given purpose-and carefully applying the prescribed techniques are both essential for benchmarking success. Also important is a proper frame of mind for receiving the lessons of benchmarking."
10.2307_4624622	2007	"Some 25 years after the introduction of the first geo-information technologies in public organizations, strategies to manage their diffusion are still inadequate. This is problematic in light of the new generation of geo-information technologies that has become available and aims to invest in these new information technologies in order to advance e-government. This study questions how strategies for diffusion of geo-information technologies in public planning organizations can be improved. It shows that classic top-down management often enhances informal diffusion activities that deviate from the formal diffusion strategy. A knowledge management approach, in which geo-information specialists and planners participate in the formation of diffusion policies, can enhance the quality of the formal strategy, thereby preventing deviation and informal diffusion activities. The authors recommend that public planning organizations use this knowledge to improve their diffusion strategies for geo-information technologies."
10.2307_3110013	2002	"Multibillion-dollar accounting scandals have brought down Enron and WorldCom, while other corporations continue to revise and restate earnings. The gradual stock market tumble has played havoc with investment portfolios of retirees, parents saving for education, small business owners, and corporate America. All eyes are on the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), a small, independent regulator of the securities markets with a gargantuan challenge. On the one hand, it faces great public expectations for rigorous reform of Wall Street. Politicians have mandated rules and sanctions for cleaning up the practice of outside audits and for improving the veracity of financial disclosures. Yet the public's expectations for a vigorous market recovery are even greater. If sanctions and rules are too severe, though, reform efforts could slow capital accumulation. This special report examines the SEC's regulatory past in order to understand the task it faces today. Management challenges posed by recent legislation are discussed, and recommendations for strengthening the SEC are presented."
10.2307_25145597	2008	"In the foregoing essay, Patricia M. Shields argues that public administration and administrators should support a much greater incorporation of classical pragmatism than has been the case to date. This paper supports that conclusion by focusing on classical pragmatism's central benefit to public administration: its ability to provide the field with a claim to objectivity that it badly needs, but which Shields barely mentions. It shows how objectivity is closely connected to a pragmatic conception of democracy, and how this conception of democracy is diametrically opposed to one built on a fact/value (or administration/politics) dichotomy."
10.2307_3843918	2006	"Sharing knowledge and information is an important factor in the discourses on electronic government, national security, and human capital management in public administration. This article analyzes the impact of organizational context and IT on employees' perceptions of knowledge-sharing capabilities in five public sector and five private sector organizations in South Korea. Social networks, centralization, performance-based reward systems, employee usage of IT applications, and user-friendly IT systems were found to significantly affect employee knowledge-sharing capabilities in the organizations studied. For public sector employees, social networks, performance-based reward systems, and employee usage of IT applications are all positively associated with high levels of employee knowledge-sharing capabilities. Lessons and implications for knowledge-sharing capabilities and management leadership in the public sector are presented."
10.2307_25145577	2008	"In 1988, when Lillian Borrone became the director of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey's Port Commerce Department, she was the first woman in the world to head a major port. During her 12-year tenure, she revitalized the port's cargo trade. She spearheaded the recovery of a faltering entity through vision, astute marketing, and an inclusive, participatory management style. Her achievements contain valuable lessons for all managers who want to revitalize agency operations. Her career path also serves as a key information source for how women can advance in the male-dominated transportation field."
10.2307_3110100	2003	"Scientific studies and resident testimony suggest that urban residents in low-income and minority communities have been subject to an unequal burden of environmental pollution and inequitable environmental enforcement practices. A key component of the equitable development and implementation of environmental policies is the participation of citizens and community-based organizations in the policy process. Such participation rests upon equitable access to agency-generated environmental information and effective use of that information by citizens. This article focuses on the adoption of Internet technologies by environmental agencies as a mechanism for disseminating information and the implications for low-income and minority residents in urban communities. A framework is developed to guide a programmatic response to overcome these implications. The results from several community-based projects are described and analyzed for their capacity-building effectiveness. Analysis of the projects indicates improvement in community capacity for information access and use, which bolstered community participation in the environmental decision-making process."
10.2307_27697863	2009	"Between 2003 and 2006, researchers facilitated a collaborative learning process with representatives of Los Angeles neighborhood councils and officials from city agencies. In two cases, each involving a large city agency, the quality of responsiveness on the part of agency officials to participating citizens was substantially different. This study considers the reasons why agency officials differed in their responsiveness. Using an inductive qualitative and quantitative content analysis across three sources of data, the study develops theory pertaining to bureaucratic responsiveness to citizens in collaborative processes. Specifically, the case findings are generalized to theory through seven propositions for future study. The study's key finding is that administrator and citizen perceptions of their own and the other party's roles may influence the quality of responsive behavior in collaborative activity. The propositions identify subfactors or contingencies that may allow administrators to be more responsive to citizens in collaborative processes."
10.2307_3843944	2006	"Charles Rossotti took the helm at the Internal Revenue Service in 1997 amid complaints of abuse of both IRS workers and taxpayers. Did he succeed at improving the agency's image without sacrificing its principal mission to enforce the tax code fairly and effectively? This retrospective on Rossotti's five-year tenure suggests that he, his leadership team, and teams of IRS employees managed effective changes that substantially improved services to taxpayers and the administration of a beleaguered revenue-collection system. His leadership offers valuable lessons and insights for administrators in all settings. Are there invaluable lessons that public administrators might learn from Rossotti's management strategy?"
10.2307_977565	1998	"Oregon developed two strategic plans for the entire state over the past decade. Its experience suggests that strategic planning can be a valuable process in helping a state adjust to a major economic and social transformation. Comparing the processes used to develop the two plans suggests that policy makers should (1) include university faculty and students in the process because it will bring new ideas to the public debate; (2) analyze benchmarks and other information to address myths and outdated beliefs; (3) use a bottom-up approach because it engages the public, increases awareness of the complexity and interrelatedness of the region's issues, and generates new insights into the status of the state; and (4) insist that every major research finding be linked to a recommendation and benchmarks because it leads to a more logical plan and a better way to determine whether the state is moving in the right direction."
10.2307_4096607	2006	"As the government-centered model of governance morphs into what Paul Light calls the ""multisectored""public service, advancing the traditional values that one cherishes in a democracy is as vital as ever. Historically, a critical and controversial concern in the field of public administration has been discerning how best to advance both passive and active representation in the public, private, and nonprofit sectors in the United States and abroad. In this installment of Theory to Practice, one of public administrations leading researchers on this topic, Sally Coleman Selden of Lynchburg College, launches an exchange among academics and practitioners on one of the most controversial methods of advancing these ends: affirmative action. From her review of this multidiscip Unary literature, she distills eight lessons for practitioners to ponder and offers an agenda for future research. A more comprehensive version of her article with an extended research agenda is available on the PAR Web site (go to aspanet. org, click on the link to PAR, and then on the Theory to Practice link). Readers will also find reactions to Selden s arguments by Domonic Bearfield, George Bush School of Government and Public Service, Texas A&M University; Lael R, Keiser, University of Missouri-Columbia; J. Edward Kellough, University of Georgia; Sharon Mastracci, University of Illinois at Chicago; and Gina E. Nightengale, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. These commentaries are accompanied by the authors response and instructions on how to join the exchange."
10.2307_3109901	2002	"The use of information and communication technology (ICT) is rapidly changing the structure of a number of large, executive public agencies. They used to be machine bureaucracies in which street-level officials exercised ample administrative discretion in dealing with individual clients. In some realms, the street-level bureaucrats have vanished. Instead of street-level bureaucracies, they have become system-level bureaucracies. System analysts and software designers are the key actors in these executive agencies. This article explores the implications of this transformation from the perspective of the constitutional state. Thanks to ICT, the implementation of the law has virtually been perfected. However, some new issues rise: What about the discretionary power of the system-level bureaucrats? How can we guarantee due process and fairness in difficult cases? The article ends with several institutional innovations that may help to embed these system-level bureaucracies in the constitutional state."
10.2307_977633	1999	"Among the National Performance Review's (NPR) prescriptions are recommendations to implement mechanisms that would provide greater flexibility in budgeting processes, particularly in the area of national security. Ex post contingency budget execution in defense already provides considerable flexibility for defense spenders-as this article illustrates with a case study of the financing of United States involvement in Bosnia. Yet, the spending discretion that has sustained U. S. peacekeeping in Bosnia is quite different from, and in some respects antithetical to, the flexibility championed by advocates of various versions of the new public management (such as NPR). Neither the current system for funding defense contingencies nor the proposals of the National Performance Review achieve the goals of providing accountable and effective mechanisms for funding these operations. Thus we offer modest proposals for reform that may make changes akin to those of the new public management compatible with traditional forms of budget execution. If implemented, the new mechanisms could permit the executive and legislative branches to focus on the policy questions inherent in post-cold-war military contingencies."
10.2307_977486	2003	"The concept of managerial responsibility is a shining thread in the literature of public administration, but its definition within our constitutional scheme remains elusive. How will we know responsible public management when we see it? We propose one answer: Public administration should be conducted according to what we term a ""precept of managerial responsibility,"" which involves four interrelated elements derived from the classical literature of public administration: judgment, accountability, balance, and rationality. We apply this precept to one of the most vexing problems of public administration theory and practice, institutional reform litigation. This application illustrates how the precept solves a major theoretical problem of American public administration by defining a role for administrative officers that fully comports with the Madisonian scheme of separated institutions-legislative, executive, and judicial-sharing power."
10.2307_3542614	2004	"How can local officials select benchmarking partners whose best practices have the most potential for applicability and success in improving service performance? This study suggests the process for selecting the most appropriate benchmarking partners and for making fair performance comparisons will be advanced if local officials initially address the issue of what level of input service quality level is desired or can be provided. Using data collected from a national survey, the study presents a framework for measuring service quality for municipal solid waste recycling programs. It examines the connection between input service quality and service outcomes and describes the results of analyses of the contextual factors and best practices that distinguish the top recycling performers and potential benchmarking partners in each service-quality class. The study suggests a model for how local officials can use this type of information to select an appropriate benchmarking partner. The study shows that a quality-of-service framework for municipal services can advance local decision making about what citizens and stakeholders expect and will support in terms of input service quality. It also can help local officials identify benchmarking partners that provide a service at the desired level of quality."
10.2307_4624619	2007	"A key to the success of public organizations is their ability to identify and build capacity, particularly their distinctive competencies, in order to produce the greatest value for key stakeholders. This article grounds this proposition in the resource-based view of organizations and presents a method for identifying and making use of distinctive competencies in the form of a ""livelihood scheme""-a business model appropriate for the public sector-that links distinctive competencies to organizational aspirations and goals. The case of a major public sector training and consultancy unit that is part of the United Kingdom's National Health Service is used as illustration. A number of conclusions are offered in the form of a set of propositions tied to the resource-based view and related research issues. The results contribute to both public strategic management theory and practice."
10.2307_977062	1997	"How are politically decentralized programs vulnerable to corruption and what can we do about it? As we move toward increasing devolution of government, corruption is likely to burgeon unless we develop proper safeguards. This article identifies and analyzes the structural features of decentralization that invite, facilitate, and even necessitate wrongdoing through a case study of the New York City public school system, where program vulnerabilities have led to widespread, systemic corruption. The article makes detailed recommendations for ways to lessen these problems through institutional changes designed to curb corruption opportunities and reforms to strengthen deterrence without increasing burdensome rules and regulations."
10.2307_3542651	2006	"In this response to Light, Koppell argues that the increasing frequency of reform may reflect Congress's inability to make significant changes to the substance of entrenched government programs. Moreover, he observes that the more profound evolution in government has been the movement toward market-based provision of services, which has created demand for new competencies in the public sector."
10.2307_3110283	2002	"For over 30 years, the distribution of educational opportunities and the equality of education funding across communities has generated considerable interest among policy makers, the public, and the courts. This article takes advantage of national data sets to examine funding equality across school districts in 49 states for fiscal years 1992 and 1995. It presents rankings of each state's funding equality and explores factors that may be related to the level of equality within states and to changes across years. The analyses suggest that, overall, within-state equality improved slightly between 1992 and 1995, although most states' relative rankings changed little during the period. States with fewer school districts relative to students tended to have a more equal distribution of education dollars than states with more districts. States with higher proportions of revenues provided by state governments generally showed a more equitable distribution of resources than states in which districts were more dependent on local revenues."
10.2307_3542655	2006	"Over the past decade, American police departments have developed a new management methodology that is beginning to be adopted by agencies outside law enforcement. Although the technique has been given different names by different agencies, this article refers to it generically as ""management by inquiry"" because the approach uses frequent, highly formalized meetings of top executives, middle management, and line personnel to inquire into the operations of individual units. The authors have had five years of direct experience with management by inquiry and have observed it in other jurisdictions. The present analysis draws on Habermas's theory of communicative action to contrast the communication premises in much management theory and practice with those implicit in inquiry-centered management. The article concludes that management by inquiry has dramatic effects on administrative behavior because it takes advantage of universal communicative norms that public administration has long overlooked."
10.2307_3110229	2000	"This study examines the capacity of U.S. counties to undertake performance measurement. Based on a national survey of counties with populations over 50,000, the authors address the following questions: To what extent do counties implement performance measurement? Which capacities must be present for different levels of implementation and success? What can counties do to increase their capacity for performance measurement? And, what is the effect of county structure and functions on the use of performance measurement? This study finds that the success of performance measurement is greatly affected by counties' underlying organizational capacities."
10.2307_3843898	2006	"What does the injunction ""serve the public interest"" really mean for public managers, and why is it important? By way of an answer, this analysis systematizes different perspectives on the public interest and offers a multifaceted formulation of the public manager's duty. It is a process involving the exploration of two concerns-democracy and mutuality-in the current time frame and two others-sustainability and legacy-in the future time frame."
10.2307_3110185	2002	"The network of public agencies, private firms, nonprofit organizations, ad hoc groups, and individual volunteers that deals with natural and technological hazards and disasters did a remarkable job of responding to and helping us recover from the September 11th attacks. That national emergency management network, along with the national security and law enforcement networks, provides a foundation for our war on terrorism, helps us mitigate the hazard of terrorism, and improves our preparedness for future violence. However, coordinating the efforts of the networks will be a real challenge for the director of homeland security and his or her state and local counterparts. Coordination will necessitate using legal authority to assure compliance, economic and other incentives to encourage compliance, formal partnerships to encourage collaboration, informal understandings to encourage cooperation, and personal encouragement to influence appropriate action. A top-down, command-and-control approach to the war on terrorism, such as the proposed Department of Homeland Security is intended to provide, may be counterproductive."
10.2307_25145657	2008	"What type of oversight should states exercise over local units in order to prevent fiscal crises? This article discusses a sequence of three best practices that some states use to prevent fiscal emergencies. They first monitor local government finances to predict fiscal distress. After detecting signs of fiscal distress, states actively assist local units in ameliorating the problem. Finally, assistance notwith-standing, if a situation becomes grave, states require local units to take strong remedial measures, including increasing taxes and reducing expenditures."
10.2307_4624645	2007	"Traditional studies of the Japanese bureaucracy have emphasized effective governance through a close government-business nexus. Yet this network relation creates corruption, especially at a high level of administration. Adopting an organizational network approach, this article provides a critical analysis of the causality between network structures and administrative corruption. Examining financial and public works policies, this article finds that amakudari- and zoku-driven network relationships, which have been reinforced by sociocultural bases, are vertically and exclusively structured and substantiate corruption in administration. Policy making on the basis of such network relations not only results in mismanagement in administration and the distortion of the market disciplines but also delegitimizes the governance system by destroying public trust in government. This article suggests that bringing greater heterogeneity and citizen participation to administration through diversity management and e-government would reduce administrative corruption in Japanese governance."
10.2307_3542527	2005	This case study explores an attempt to get input from people with limited English proficiency in a state department of transportation project to improve their transit access. Adding community voices to expert discourse can increase an agency's ability to respond effectively in a technical field. The article yields insights into the benefits of using deliberative groups rather than questionnaires as a technique for involving citizens in problem definition.
10.2307_4096601	2006	"The ""glass ceiling"" model of gender equity has its weaknesses. Therefore, a multiple-dimensions approach to gender is proposed. This essay reports on a field study of organizational gender arrangements in 10 public sector worksites in New South Wales, Australia. Despite equal opportunity measures, gender divisions of labor persist in several forms. Processes that sustain and undermine these divisions are identified. Authority patterns are being reconfigured, with restructuring and rising numbers of women in management resulting in local turbulence in gender relations. Emotions of gender transition are identified, with considerable diversity in reactions among men. An emerging pattern, the ""depolarized workplace,"" is described. A cultural trend toward workplace gender neutrality is observable. Proposals are made for better practice in gender equity work, including richer ways for public organizations to study their own gender regimes."
10.2307_3110214	2002	"The author draws on the Brazilian public administration literature to discuss the conflict between the need to remain open to lessons from elsewhere, while at the same time remaining grounded in a particular local context. The article begins by presenting calls by a number of Brazilian public administration scholars for what might be termed an ""administrative particularism."" or an assertion that universal lessons do not apply in the discipline. This is followed by a discussion of the challenges that these and other Brazilian public administration scholars identify. Further discussion will suggest these challenges, and many of the solutions most commonly offered for them, imply that, far from a uniquely Brazilian public administration, the country seeks to move closer to the model of public administration practiced elsewhere, especially in the developed world."
10.2307_25145697	2008	"Today's global concerns with poverty, instability, and terrorism link international development and security in unprecedented ways and assemble new actors in the foreign policy arena. The lessons of past experience need to better inform current policy and practice. The evolution of thinking on the role of the state, the citizen, and international development management provides clues regarding what works and what research questions remain to be answered. Institutional barriers to cooperation and shared learning need to be overcome, along with tendencies to revert to earlier, simplistic management approaches to solving international development problems."
10.2307_977063	1997	"Recently, the executive and legislative branches of the federal government have been engaged in a great debate about the appropriate additional degrees of responsibility to accord state and local government in the area of environmental regulation. Less attention has been focused on the impact of the federal courts on federalism and environmental policy. In assessing key cases in several areas of environmental policy Wise and O'Leary find that the courts have been pointing in many directions at once and are sending few clear signals concerning who is to take responsibility for environmental management. In analyzing the circumstances that do matter to the courts, they find that the signals the federal courts are sending do not support a national policy emphasizing state empowerment in environmental policy."
10.2307_3542593	2004	"During the 1990s, terrorist actions using biological weapons and the fear that rogue states possessed such weapons placed bioterrorism on the political agenda, a policy window widened by the September 11 attacks. Advocates for improving the U.S. public health infrastructure attempted to use this window to obtain the resources necessary for modernization. This article examines those efforts and identifies significant problems arising from a mismatch between the goals of public health policy entrepreneurs and the policy window used to address them. By defining bioterrorism as a security rather than a public health issue, policy entrepreneurs squander the opportunity to institute broad-based reforms that would improve not only the ability to manage a terrorist incident, but also meet other public health needs. The bioterrorism program proves a useful case study in how the goals of policy entrepreneurs can be displaced by attaching policy preferences to the wrong policy stream."
10.2307_3110183	2002	"This article considers the post-September 11 challenges faced by the U.S. national security machinery and analyzes the relationship between the new threat environment, the United States's role in the world, and decision-making structure. Homeland security is defined as a subset of national security. The threat of foreign terrorist organizations acting on U.S. soil should be seen in the political context of the pursuit of U.S. national interests in an often anarchic world. Two models for homeland security organizational structures are considered: a departmental model and an interagency model. The interagency model, embodied in the Homeland Security Council, is a better fit given the nature of the threat, the crucial need for coordination, and the realities of governmental decision making. The organizational challenges that may complicate the government's preparations, decisions, and implementation of a major homeland defense mission stem from three rivalries: executive-legislative, cabinet-staff, and Homeland Security Council-National Security Council."
10.2307_977648	2000	"In recent years, many state legislatures have proposed, considered, and adopted legislation intended to thwart fuel tax evasion. Despite the recent political activity of state legislatures to increase fuel tax compliance, there is relatively little research examining the evasion of excise taxes in general or the motor-fuel tax in particular. This article examines the issues of fuel tax evasion from a policy perspective. We discuss the vulnerability of the fuel tax to evasion and examine how state legislatures in the southern region have responded to the tax evasion issue. We focus the examination on four major initiatives implemented at the federal level in four broad policy areas: tax administration, penalties and punishments, liability, and visibility and enforcement. These findings provide important insight for developing new strategies to enhance compliance to the fuel tax in particular and excise taxes in general. Furthermore, we discuss how issues of fuel tax compliance can be extended to other compliance issues such as Medicare fraud."
10.2307_3109902	2002	"This article analyzes to what extent the ""care-gap""-that is, too few carers looking after increasing numbers of the elderly-has become part of the problem definition of the demographic shift in the Netherlands in reports of the major scientific policy advisor to the government. Do these reports still assume a gender order in which women are informal carers and men are breadwinners? What notions about gender are circulating, and is the gender order challenged by policy recommendations? With a framework for gender-discourse analysis, the author shows that, despite increasing awareness of the care gap, the problem definition remains framed as the costs of collective provision of health care and pensions. Recommendations still assume that women will continue to provide informal care while they also enter the labor market to maintain collective provisions."
10.2307_27697829	2009	"This paper examines the career consequences for public managers of having had full-time private sector work experience. We find positive career outcomes for public managers with private sector experience: Individuals with such experience are more likely to have been recently promoted relative to peers and to supervise somewhat greater number of employees, especially if their most recent job was in the private sector. While experience in the private sector enhances such career outcomes, the length of such experience diminishes them. The authors conclude by identifying three career scenarios emerging from the models and discussing the managerial and theoretical implications of ""sector-switching careers."""
10.2307_27697887	2009	"In most local developing settings, the political leader and the municipal manager are embodied in the same figure, the directly elected mayor. This research explores the impact of mayoral quality on local public finances in a developing country. Mayoral quality is operationalized as educational background and jobrelated expertise to analyze its impact on two local financial indicators: property tax collection and social spending per capita. The mayoral quality thesis is tested across 40 Colombian municipalities over five years (2000??2004). After considering other political, economic, and external influences, the findings reveal that mayoral quality is associated with greater property tax collection and more social spending per capita. This positive influence, however, decreases under external constraints??such as presence of illegal armed groups. This study demonstrates how much influence the mayor can have when circumstances permit. The findings point to the significance of electing qualified mayors, as decentralization may not directly improve subnational finance. Instead, through decentralization, qualified mayors contribute to improved local public finance."
10.2307_976960	1997	"This article shows how city councils can learn to govern better. The author suggests an on-the-job learning framework that uses the political context to stimulate effective group action. Called governance education, this framework gives council members a safe way to frame actual (not hypothetical) policies after they resolve their most difficult situations. The author derives governance education from the literature on public administration, political science, and adult learning. Its learning model contains four stages: uncovering, redefining, learning, and relearning. By easing political tensions, governance education enables council members to unfold new policy choices. The author uses a case study to show how governance education works in practice."
10.2307_977577	1998	"This article identifies effective practices that successful human service contract managers use in the negotiating and contracting process. It is important to identify these practices because modern governments, specifically state and local governments, increasingly contract for social services. Yet, there continue to be barriers to contracting for services, including the manager's approach. Interviews were held with managers in the area offices of Massachusetts' Department of Social Services (DSS). Interview responses were processed and formatted for use in a computer-assisted analysis program. Practices of successful contract managers were compared with those of less successful managers. Analysis identified eight effective practices that successful managers use or use more than less successful managers in the contracting and negotiation process."
10.2307_977649	2000	"A major problem in assessing bureaucratic performance is the difficulty in judging the final social outcomes stemming from the work of public agencies. As a result, public agencies are frequently evaluated based on the outputs they produce. Agency outputs (such as, criminal cases solved, inspections) are easier to measure than the actual contributions agencies make to social outcomes (such as, preventing workplace discrimination, protecting the environment). When agency performance is evaluated in terms of numerical outputs, bureaucrats have an incentive to maximize outputs, regardless of whether maximizing outputs is the preferred strategy for achieving desired social outcomes (a form of goal displacement). This incentive to maximize outputs may lead to organizational cheating, in which public agencies purposely manipulate output levels to portray their work in the best light possible. This study examines the problems of goal displacement and organizational cheating in Texas public schools. Specifically, we examine the degree to which school districts cheat to manipulate student pass rates on standardized exams. School districts ""cheat"" by liberally exempting certain students from these exams in hopes of raising overall district pass rates. Scarce institutional resources and extreme task demands are associated with cheating. From a management perspective, this study demonstrates the problems in implementing performance standards. From an academic perspective, it provides the first theory about when and why organizations cheat."
10.2307_27697868	2009	"A long-standing contention in the public and private management literatures is that women use rule abidance as a way to compensate for their relative lack of organizational power. Many of the studies making this assertion rely on anecdotal evidence rather than theory-guided empirical studies. In this paper, the authors use survey data collected from four cities in a midwestern state to empirically test gender dimensions of rule abidance. The findings support long-asserted gender differences in rule abidance. Contrary to recent scholarship, however, the findings suggest that rule abidance among women is inversely related to organizational status, with higher-level women abiding by rules more so than women lower in the hierarchy."
10.2307_4096596	2006	"The final report of the House Select Bipartisan Committee, A Failure of Initiative, and the comprehensive report prepared by Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Frances Fragos Townsend, The Federal Response to Hurricane Katrina: Lessons Learned, are two seminal public documents. Dwight Ink, a highly respected practitioner with successful experience in disaster management, and Donald C. Menzel, an academic and immediate past president of ASPA, have graciously agreed to review these voluminous documents for us. In addition to providing an excellent overview of the documents, their reflections enable us to view Hurricane Katrina through both a theoretical and a practical lens. Neither sees a pretty picture. From their vantage points of academe and practice, these scholars raise serious questions about the United States' ability to cope with its next disaster."
10.2307_3542611	2004	"The federal government subsidizes lending to a number of borrowers-notably students, farmers, and homeowners. Government-sponsored enterprises issue the securities that channel capital to many of these privileged borrowers. One of the largest of these enterprises, the Student Loan Marketing Association (Sallie Mae), is scheduled to be wholly privatized by September 30, 2008. What explains the privatization of this enterprise? To identify distinctive features of Sallie Mae that permitted or abetted privatization, we investigate the structure, related capital market innovations, and growth of three government-sponsored enterprises. We conclude that a unique structural feature of Sallie Mae may explain the pace of privatization. The core asset of Sallie Mae, the student loan, is guaranteed and subsidized by the government. The case of Sallie Mae is an instructive yet poorly understood example of how the federal government can leverage private-sector assets and incentives to achieve public policy missions."
10.2307_4624540	2007	"This study advances our understanding of employee work motivation and performance in the public sector by reinterpreting the literature on public service motivation within the psychological framework of goal theory. An empirical test of this new framework suggests that goal theory provides a strong theoretical foundation for understanding the independent contributions of task, mission, and public service to employee work motivation and performance. The importance of an organization's mission increases employee work motivation in the public sector by making the job more important, even after controlling for the effect of performance-related extrinsic rewards."
10.2307_27697916	2009	"Despite the abundance of red tape literature and the growing popularity of outsourcing in the public sector, no study has yet investigated red tape in consulting relationships. Using survey data from public managers and the contractors with whom they work, the authors investigate public managers' and private consultants' perceptions of organizational and contracting red tape. They identify the determinants of red tape perceptions, variation in those perceptions, and the characteristics of respondents with stronger divergent views of contracting red tape. The results indicate that government managers perceive higher levels of organizational red tape and contracting red tape than their consultants. Public managers' perceptions of red tape are associated with job satisfaction and time spent managing and communicating with consultants. Consultants' perceptions of red tape are associated with perceptions of the appropriateness of the government agency's rules, the number of years the firm has worked with the agency, and the percentage of the firm's cost-plus contracts."
10.2307_3110284	2002	"This article analyzes how service-providing government agencies should set the prices they charge to other governmental customers. Current Defense Working Capital Fund (DWCF) rules generally prescribe use of expected average cost transfer pricing. However, analysis of the Defense Finance and Accounting Service (DFAS), as an example, suggests DFAS has considerable fixed costs. These fixed costs are problematic under present DWCF pricing rules. If customer demand levels fall short of expectations, DFAS revenues fall commensurably, but costs almost certainly do not. It would be more consistent with DFAS's cost structure if DFAS could utilize nonlinear pricing. Such a pricing approach would give DFAS customers more appropriate incentives with respect to how much workload to give DFAS (versus trying to do it themselves or turning it over to contractors). We hypothesize that insights from DFAS may be applicable to other governmental working capital fund entities as well."
10.2307_977410	2000	"What goes around, comes around: the woman who once solicited others to produce manuscripts for PAR is now the subject of a manuscript. Laverne Burchfield was managing editor of this journal for 15 volumes, from 1943 to 1958, and in ASPA's early days before it had an executive director, she served as secretary/treasurer for the association and she wrote the proposal that funded the first executive director. This is her biography-a woman passionately committed to the world of public service, the world of ideas, and, simply, the world in its natural splendor."
10.2307_3110354	2002	"In an era when everyone wants to be a millionaire, governments struggle to attract and retain highly qualified employees, making it more important than ever to understand what attracts people to the public service. Using contingency table analysis and logistic regression on the 1989 and 1998 General Social Surveys, we explore how individuals' demographic characteristics and the importance they place on various job qualities influence their preference for and employment in the public sector. Job security may still be the strongest attraction of government jobs, but high income and the opportunity to be useful to society also attract some Americans to the public service. Minorities, veterans, Democrats, and older Americans preferred public-sector jobs more than whites, nonveterans, Republicans, and younger Americans, who were otherwise similar. Women and college graduates were more likely than comparable men and less-educated respondents to have government jobs, but no more likely to prefer them. Overall, desire for government jobs declined markedly between 1989 and 1998."
10.2307_977503	2001	"Although cooperative, interorganizational networks have become a common mechanism for delivery of public services, evaluating their effectiveness is extremely complex and has generally been neglected. To help resolve this problem, we discuss the evaluation of networks of community-based, mostly publicly funded health, human service, and public welfare organizations. Consistent with pressures to perform effectively from a broad range of key stakeholders, we argue that networks must be evaluated at three levels of analysis: community, network, and organization/participant levels. While the three levels are related, each has its own set of effectiveness criteria that must be considered. The article offers a general discussion of network effectiveness, followed by arguments explaining effectiveness criteria and stakeholders at each level of analysis. Finally, the article examines how effectiveness at one level of network analysis may or may not match effectiveness criteria at another level and the extent to which integration across levels may be possible."
10.2307_25145586	2008	"Contracting out has become an accepted and, indeed, universal method of providing services in both the private and public sectors. Yet rarely has a municipality outsourced just about every service under its direct control-from public safety (police and fire), to solid waste collection and disposal, to parks maintenance, to municipal engineering and legal services. Weston, Florida, a city of some 62,000 residents, operates with just three employees-the city manager and two assistants. Hence the primary role of city manager has changed as well, from day-to-day administrator to contract manager and monitor. This essay describes the contracting operations in Weston and evaluates their efficiency and effectiveness."
10.2307_3542496	2004	"Significant changes in the political management of local authorities in the United Kingdom are now taking place as a result of legislation passed by the Labour government since 1997. The new political management models aim to modernize local governance by strengthening local leadership, streamlining decision making, and enhancing local accountability. These changes owe much to U.S. experience: They involve the introduction of a separation of powers between an executive and an assembly, and they allow local authorities to introduce directly elected mayors for the first time ever. Is U.K. local government beginning to adopt what might be described as U.S.-style approaches to local governance? The evidence suggests the new institutional designs for U.K. local authorities represent a radical shift toward U.S.-style local leadership and decision making. However, the U.K. central state remains heavily involved in the details of local decision making, to an extent that would be unthinkable in the United States."
10.2307_3542640	2005	"This article examines the effectiveness of contract accountability in social service contracts. The analysis is based on five case studies of Kansas contracts for selected welfare, Medicaid, and foster care and adoption services. Results indicate the state has achieved moderate to high levels of accountability effectiveness, especially in terms of specifying social service contracts and selecting appropriate accountability strategies. However, accountability is undermined by the use of risk shifting, reliance on a system of multiple competing providers, and the adoption of new information technologies. These conclusions contradict the conventional wisdom, theory, and existing research on contracting."
10.2307_25145732	2008	"E-governance comprises the use of information and communication technologies (ICTs) to support public services, government administration, democratic processes, and relationships among citizens, civil society, the private sector, and the state. Developed over more than two decades of technology innovation and policy response, the evolution of e-governance is examined in terms of five interrelated objectives: a policy framework, enhanced public services, high-quality and cost-effective government operations, citizen engagement in democratic processes, and administrative and institutional reform. This summary assessment of e-governance in U.S. states and local governments shows that the greatest investment and progress have been made in enhanced public services and improved government operations. Policy development has moved forward on several fronts, but new policy issues continually add to an increasingly complex set of concerns. The least progress appears to have occurred in enhancing democracy and exploring the implications of e-governance for administrative and institutional reform. ICT-enabled governance will continue to evolve for the foreseeable future providing a dynamic environment for ongoing learning and action."
10.2307_40469025	2009	"What is ASPA's place among core public professional organizations as well as public official associations? All public organizations are affected by tough competition for membership. Relatively few members of other public associations join ASPA, and vice versa. Only a minority of faculty members who teach in public affairs programs belong to ASPA, and at top schools, the proportion is even lower. When comparing ASPA to other public official associations, it is smaller in size and broader in scope, yet it remains a uniquely pan-generalist organization. Its pan-generalist character puts it at a disadvantage, but also offers distinct advantages. Like all public associations and nonprofits, ASPA faces stiff competition from increasingly specialized associations for membership. Its key future challenge, the authors suggest, will be to match its membership benefits effectively to the rapidly shifting expectations and needs of current and prospective members."
10.2307_3110015	2002	"Governance structures constrain and enable the actions of public managers. Principal-agent theory has played a dominant role in our understanding of governance structures. This theory suggests that politicians create relatively static governance structures in a top-down fashion and hold managers accountable for mandated results. In other words, public managers are influenced by governance structures but do not affect governance structures. However, we argue that public managers do affect governance structures, and, in order to understand how this influence takes place, we need a new way of thinking about governance structures. We propose thinking about governance structures as relationships created through the interactions of people in different and reciprocal roles that are relatively dynamic. Public managers are an important source of the multiple, reciprocal, and dynamic interactions that produce governance (relationship) structures. As such, managers are accountable not only for policy outcomes, but also for the appropriateness of the relationships they create and support."
10.2307_4096567	2006	"Social science research contains a wealth of knowledge for people seeking to understand collaboration processes. The authors argue that public managers should look inside the ""black box"" of collaboration processes. Inside, they will find a complex construct of five variable dimensions: governance, administration, organizational autonomy, mutuality, and norms. Public managers must know these five dimensions and manage them intentionally in order to collaborate effectively."
10.2307_27697831	2009	"This article elucidates the temporal dimension of time stress among employees in public organizations. Employees working at five agencies in Indiana were surveyed. Job characteristics and personal variables such as overtime, repetitiveness, gender, family obligation, and age group were found to be insignificant as time stressors. However, political factors such as level of government, goal awareness, political sensitivity, and time allotted for meetings were significant independent variables affecting time stress. To enhance performance in the public sector, especially when a merit pay system is not fully instituted, more attention needs to be paid to the time dimension."
10.2307_977520	2003	"Postindustrial societies have arrived at a moment of immense democratic and entrepreneurial opportunities that has been made possible by information technology. At the same time, however, these opportunities pose potential threats if they are not debated and planned for in consensually-legitimate ways. This article examines the current problems of representative democracy and the impact of information technology on the current and future quality of democratic governance. Four generic models of ""electronic democracy"" that are made possible by interactive information technologies-electronic bureaucracy, information management, populist, and civil society-are analyzed in terms of their applicability and impact. Information technology's impact on the roles, responsibilities, and accountability of citizens, elected representatives, the media, and corporations is also examined. This article proposes strategies for reinventing democratic governance, including recognizing community values, accommodating critical debate, and providing access for citizen participation in policy analysis."
10.2307_977311	1997	"In the post Cold War era increasing international economic competition has redefined the context for espionage as nations link their national security to their economic security. Proprietary economic information meant to be secret is stolen with losses estimated anywhere between $24 and 100 billion. In this climate of distrust, intelligence services are expanding from their primary focus on military secrets to collecting economic secrets, i. e., to conducting economic espionage. Since cessation of the Cold War, the most virulent offenders have been former military allies of the United States. Economic espionage poses a real threat to America's economic future, yet outside of the intelligence community, few know about it. The author attempts to close this information gap by defining economic espionage, and by discussing the methods used to obtain trade secrets from U. S. corporations. He also provides an overview of legislation used in fighting economic espionage and the impact of the Economic Espionage Act of 1996, which is aimed at strengthening efforts at preventing it."
10.2307_40468961	2009	"In responding to Professor Lynns criticism that the field of public administration has been insufficiently attentive to law, this article offers an alternative perspective on the source of administrative legitimacy. Leonard White understood that public administration is shaped by its broader context It does not assert its own values but, in an effort to maintain legitimacy, reflects the political and cultural values of its environment. In Whites time, the extraordinary challenges that the state faced, and its subsequent transformation, demanded a management capacity that previously had not existed. While the role of law as a formal means of control is generally accepted, it must take its place with management and other administrative values in the exercise of legal discretionary behavior. Asserting law, or any other single administrative value, as dominant undercuts other values that act as sources of legitimacy."
10.2307_3110211	2002	"Are the fields of nonprofit management and public management naturally complementary, or are they substitutes? Briefly surveying the nonprofit literature on board governance, volunteer management, and performance measurement, the author shows that study of the third sector can help inform public management's ""big questions."" As such, nonprofit studies and scholarship should represent an improvement to public administration curricula and a fertile source of ideas for public managers."
10.2307_3110101	2003	"Performance measurement is not an end in itself. So why should public managers measure performance? Because they may find such measures helpful in achieving eight specific managerial purposes. As part of their overall management strategy, public managers can use performance measures to evaluate, control, budget, motivate, promote, celebrate, learn, and improve. Unfortunately, no single performance measure is appropriate for all eight purposes. Consequently, public managers should not seek the one magic performance measure. Instead, they need to think seriously about the managerial purposes to which performance measurement might contribute and how they might deploy these measures. Only then can they select measures with the characteristics necessary to help achieve each purpose. Without at least a tentative theory about how performance measures can be employed to foster improvement (which is the core purpose behind the other seven), public managers will be unable to decide what should be measured."
10.2307_3542477	2005	"The topic of statesmanship has been largely neglected by public administration scholars. This article underscores the moral dilemmas and implications that arise when statesmen abandon their principles for the good of the state, as was the case when Thomas Jefferson purchased the Louisiana Territory from France without congressional consent. This example draws our attention to the important connections between statesmanship and administrative ethics. Jefferson's decision to abandon his strict constructionist principles to acquire Louisiana illustrates the ethical complexities of public administration, public management, and the democratic governance process."
10.2307_977413	2000	"Public administration has long been understood to be both a science and an art. In its artful aspects, public administration can also, in fact, be beautiful. At their very best, public organizations and processes have forms, designs, experiences, and languages which are beautiful and compelling. It is this beauty and its potential which draws us to public work. And, there is very great beauty in ideas of high and noble purpose and in the organizations and processes we build to achieve those ideas."
10.2307_4624640	2007	"The research on government performance measurement has been largely descriptive and prescriptive, with only limited attention paid to hypothesis testing and middle-range theory construction. Although researchers have made prescriptions about how to make performance management work the validity of those prescriptions has not been systematically examined. In particular, the role of the external political environment and stakeholder participation, two important factors for public sector management, remains unclear. Based on survey data, this article uses structural equation modeling to test a model that assesses how political environment, stakeholder participation, organizational support, and training affect the adoption and managerial effectiveness of performance management."
10.2307_977312	1997	"This article examines the relationship between citizens and government, and proposes a value-centered model that focuses on the worth of government to its citizens. The value-centered perspective builds on two models presented in previous research: the customer model and the owner model. We contrast these models and show how they interrelate. We then report the results of exploratory field research with constituents of a Northeastern city to examine the applicability and usefulness of the value perspective in describing and influencing citizen perceptions of the value of city government. The results suggest that citizens were unaccustomed to thinking of the value of government; yet they expressed opinions, engaged in activities, and coinvested personal resources in a way that was consistent with the value perspective."
10.2307_25145669	2008	"Local election officials are the administrators of democracy, but we know little about their views. This paper draws from two national surveys of local election officials. The authors find that local election officials generally support the goals of the federal Help America Vote Act but are less enthusiastic about the actual impact of the legislation. Implementation theory helps explain their evaluation of federal reforms. Goal congruence with reform mandates, resource availability, and a willingness to accept federal involvement predicts support for these reforms. Federal policy changes have promoted electronic systems, and some of the authors' findings are relevant to research on e-government. Users of electronic voting machines tend to have high confidence in them despite the significant criticism the machines have faced. Local election officials who support e-government generally are more likely to more positively evaluate federal reforms."
10.2307_27697919	2009	"Research demonstrates that some government agencies are more accomplished than others when it comes to e-government. More generally, various scholars suggest that e-government is moving forward at a relatively slow pace, especially in relation to the sophistication of government Web sites. With these issues in mind, this research utilized interviews with state public utility commission staff members to explore their agencies' experiences with staffing, funding, coordinating, and prioritizing their e-government efforts, particularly their Web site activities. Assessing such efforts in both quantitative and qualitative terms, this research found that a mix of various factors, including financial resources, knowledgeable staff, and administrative oversight, related to better performance. Moreover, although public utility commissions have a clear mission to serve both consumers and regulated utilities, this research indicates that the commissions are focusing more of their e-government efforts on industry rather than citizens."
10.2307_4624543	2007	"The common pronouncement of a career in public service as a ""calling"" echoes with a decidedly spiritual chord. However, the spiritual roots of public service have been ignored in much of the public administration scholarship. This essay examines the empirical connection between individual spirituality and participation in public service occupations. Data from the 1998 General Social Survey are analyzed to determine whether those in public service occupations are more spiritual than persons in non-public service occupations. The findings indicate that individuals in public service occupations, especially government-related ones, are in fact more spiritual in their attitudes than others. Moreover, belief in the notions of transcendence and compassion for others are more pronounced in public service employees. Finally, the experience of interconnectedness and life meaning is greater for those in the public service."
10.2307_3542678	2006	"During the first half of the 20th century, public administration developed a normative theory of public reporting. It called on government managers to contribute to an informed citizenry through regular reports to the public, especially annual reports. However, in the only known instance when this theory was subjected to comparative empirical research, a doctoral student at the University of California, Berkeley, conducted some methodologically credible experiments during the early 1940s. Her results demonstrated the ineffectiveness of annual reports. However, rather than adjusting to accommodate this empirical information, leading organizations ignored them and continued pushing for annual reports. With the test results never published in an academic journal and the student's dissertation left incomplete, they were soon lost and forgotten. Public administration's interest in public reporting declined during the second half of the 20th century, perhaps because of the lack of an empirically based approach."
10.2307_3109906	2002	"Researchers and practitioners in both the public and private sectors agree that participative management improves employees' job satisfaction. Public agencies have also turned to strategic planning to enhance government performance and accountability. This study explores the relationship between participative management in the context of the strategic planning and job satisfaction in local government agencies. The results of multiple regression analysis show that managers' use of a participative management style and employees' perceptions of participative strategic planning processes are positively associated with high levels of job satisfaction. The study also finds that effective supervisory communications in the context of the strategic planning process are positively associated with high levels of job satisfaction. The study suggests that participative management that incorporates effective supervisory communications can enhance employees' job satisfaction. In this regard, organizational leaders in the public sector should emphasize changing organizational culture from the traditional pattern of hierarchical structure to participative management and empowerment."
10.2307_25145631	2008	"As e-government evolves into the transactions stage, governments must grapple with how to finance the development of e-transactions. The authors argue that the externalities effects of electronic transactions suggest they are appropriately financed by some combination of public investment and user charges. We propose a self-financing model adhering to two basic requirements. A flexible pricing framework is the core of the self-financing model, as it embodies both the firm's and the government's perspectives. We assess basic assumptions of the pricing framework using contingent valuation methodology and a statewide survey of more than 400 firms. The empirical estimates we develop of the willingness to pay for e-transactions with state government and the theoretical discussion about the self-financing model from the basis for prescribing policy recommendations."
10.2307_3109949	1999	"The job of local elected officials (LEOs) is a complicated and demanding one. To govern municipalities, LEOs need special knowledge and leadership skills related to the democratic political system. Because most cities treat their learning as optional, LEOs are choosing not to develop their governance capacity. The authors argue that this is a public problem. Their thesis is that LEO development is a necessity in public administration. By blending theory and practice, they uncover initial information, impressions, and implications about LEO development. Their study shows why local governments cannot exist without competent LEOs. It also suggests how public administration educators can help prepare elected officials for municipal governance. The authors conclude this article with a job description for LEOs. This job description contains six competencies. LEOs who govern competently enhance the lives of their cities' present and future generations."
10.2307_977316	1997	"What is Public Administration? has worried American administrative scholars throughout this century: Is it a discipline? Profession? Field? Focus? Enterprise? Or, what? This essay takes a new look at that old question, one that Dwight Waldo spent much of his academic career wrestling with. It begins by looking at how Dwight Waldo's The Administrative State conceived of the American state, in contrast to the European state experience. The author concludes that Public Administration on both sides of the Atlantic is intricately intertwined with state development, its whole and parts, its past, present and future. Thus, our own Public Administration-and Europe's as well-can only be understood within the peculiar, nation-state context. In Europe literally the state makes Public Administration; whereas within the United States, the reverse can be said to be true."
10.2307_977535	2001	"Budgetary agreements may be thought of as collective action problems in which the problem at hand is maintaining group cohesion by controlling free riders. The standard solution to the free rider problem includes monitoring group behavior and imposing sanctions. This article analyzes the collective action problem present in the budgetary provisions of the Maastricht Treaty, which created the Economic Monetary Union, by focusing on the four stages of budgetary compliance that are evident in all budgetary agreements and treaties."
10.2307_40469035	2009	"Do Henry Mintzbergs writings make an enduring, invaluable contribution to our understanding of the contemporary public policy process? Mintzberg argues that organizations display eight structural configurations and corresponding coordinating mechanisms. Such structural configurations are shaped by a variety of contingency factors, especially power and environmental ones. Using Mintzbergs work, eight policy modes, corresponding to structural configurations within government organizations and political systems, are identified and placed on a matrix that comprises two dimensions: standardization and centralization. Six polarities in the policy process arise from this matrix. Mintzbergs work, the paper argues, remains of enduring value because it provides a seminal framework for a richer understanding of the current policy process, by offering a contingency theory of structures and policy modes, as well as by frank acknowledgment of the protean nature of the policy process."
10.2307_3110003	2001	"Mediation, facilitation, and other alternative dispute resolution (ADR) techniques are being used in federal agencies, state and local governments, private-sector organizations, and among private citizens in an effort to prevent and resolve disputes in a timely, cost-effective, and less adversarial manner. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), one of the pioneers in the application of ADR processes and techniques to public policy disputes, recently announced that it plans to increase the use of ADR techniques and practices across all agency programs. This article reports the results of a four-part evaluation of the use of ADR in enforcement actions at the EPA during the last two decades. Funded by the Hewlett Foundation, this effort utilized in-depth telephone interviews, government statistics, and archival records. The four groups interviewed were EPA's alternative dispute resolution specialists, potentially responsible parties (defendants) to EPA enforcement lawsuits, mediators and facilitators to EPA cases, and agency enforcement attorneys who had participated in agency enforcement ADR processes. Concluding that there are generally high levels of satisfaction with the EPA's enforcement ADR program, this article examines the sources of obstacles and assistance to ADR efforts at the EPA, suggests ways in which the EPA might improve its ADR programs, and draws lessons from the EPA's experiences that may be helpful to other public programs or organizations."
10.2307_4624621	2007	"Fiscal decentralization programs are works in progress, and expenditure roles often need to be adjusted to improve service delivery. The Balkan countries of Romania and Bulgaria, both needed for accession to the European Union in 2007, must demonstrate positive results from their fiscal decentralization programs in the social services area. Focusing on social service delivery, this paper explores how the design of fiscal decentralization programs, in the form of assigning intergovernmental expenditure roles and responsibilities, affects service performance. The authors conclude that fiscal decentralization requires the proper assignment of authority to match expenditure responsibilities and the policy and administrative capacity to carry them out."
10.2307_27697913	2009	"Despite the growing role that contracts with nonprofits play in local service delivery, only limited attention has been directed to why some cities rely more on nonprofit organizations to produce services or how political institutions influence the role nonprofits play in service delivery. To investigate these issues, the authors present a transaction cost explanation that focuses on how political system characteristics and structures of service markets shape the costs of negotiating, monitoring, and enforcing contracts for local governments. The findings indicate that forms of government, mayoral turnover, racial segregation, and the market of nonprofit producers influence the role of nonprofits in delivering elder services, but decisions to contract exclusively with nonprofits are subject to different influences than decisions to jointly produce service with a nonprofit organization."
10.2307_3110328	2002	"Although academic and professional publications give the impression that performance measurement is a growing government practice, in actuality the use of this technology is not as deep or as widespread as it may appear. Even when performance measures are used, governments rarely integrate them into planning, budget, personnel, and other management processes. Most professional researchers located primarily in academic institutions, but also in research and government organizations, approach performance measurement as though governmental officials, elected or otherwise, are already sold on its usefulness. Instead, they need to function as ""change agents,"" using a variety of strategies to gain acceptance and understanding of the strengths and limitations of performance measurement. This article draws on the authors' experiences with the Community Benchmarks Program of the Maxwell School in Onondaga County and a review of the current literature. It suggests guidelines for professional researchers who want to increase the use of performance measures by governments at all levels."
10.2307_25145703	2008	"After the demise of the space shuttle Columbia on February 1, 2003, the Columbia Accident Investigation Board sharply criticized NASA's safety culture. Adopting the high-reliability organization as a benchmark, the board concluded that NASA did not possess the organizational characteristics that could have prevented this disaster. Furthermore, the board determined that high-reliability theory is ""extremely useful in describing the culture that should exist in the human spaceflight organization."" In this article, we argue that this conclusion is based on a misreading and misapplication of high-reliability research. We conclude that in its human spaceflight programs, NASA has never been, nor could it be, a high-reliability organization. We propose an alternative framework to assess reliability and safety in what we refer to as reliability-seeking organizations."
10.2307_976963	1997	"This study examines changing attitudes about ethics in government. It compares the perceptions of public managers in 1989 with those in 1996, a time that saw the passing of the Decade of Greed and the coming of the Decade of Reinventing Government. The findings from this national survey explore attitudes toward ethics in society and integrity in public agencies, with emphasis on the American Society for Public Administration's (ASPA) newly-revised Code of Ethics. While there is some consistency and stability of views over the seven year period, the results suggest that individuals are increasingly empowered, agencies are effecting change, and the Society's code may be impacting management practices. The implications of these data for future ASPA ethics activities are then explored."
10.2307_4624548	2007	"Herbert Kaufman's 1960 investigation of federal forest rangers provided important insights into administrative discretion, agency culture, and natural resource policy making. Subsequent studies of Forest Service administration have documented that agency's change over time, mirroring broad changes in federal public administration. But little is known about state forest administration. This article describes results from a survey of line officers in 48 state forest agencies, as well as state forest statute analysis. Results indicate systematic state-federal differences in legal constraints, citizen interactions, and the forest administrators themselves. Though these differences foster state administrator decision making based on professional expertise, they do not encourage the incorporation of stakeholder views into agency policy making, nor do they yield a bureaucracy that represents a diverse constituency. State forest administrators perceive substantial external challenges to their professional discretion, but it remains to be seen whether state forest agencies will change to more closely resemble their federal counterpart."
10.2307_3542615	2004	"State wildlife policy and management are often characterized by divisive political conflict among competing stakeholders. This conflict is increasingly being resolved through the ballot-initiative process. One important reason the process is being used so often is the way state wildlife policy and management decisions are often made by state wildlife commissions, boards, or councils (the dominant way these decisions are made in the United States). These bodies are often perceived by important stakeholders as biased, exclusive, or unrepresentative of nonconsumptive stakeholder values. As a result, unsatisfied interest groups often try to take decision-making authority away from these institutions and give it to the public through the ballot initiative. Cases and examples from Alaska, Arizona, Colorado, and Idaho are examined in this context. The article finishes by outlining four broad alternatives that may be debated in the future: the no change alternative, the authoritative expert alternative, the structural change alternative, and the stakeholder-based collaborative conservation alternative(s)."
10.2307_25145673	2008	"This article evaluates the results and impacts of administrative modernization in Germany after more than 10 years of New Public Management experience, concentrating on the most advanced level of public sector reform: local authorities. Drawing on a broad empirical basis, the authors pursue the following questions: Do ""Weberian"" administrative structures and processes continue to characterize the German public sector, or have the reforms left behind lasting traces of a managerial administration? Are local authorities performing better today, and if so, can this be attributed to the New Public Management modernization? The presented results show that no paradigm shift from the ""Weberian"" bureaucracy to New Public Management has occurred so far. Performance improvements notwithstanding, the new mix of steering instruments causes numerous unintended consequences, causing ""Weberian"" administration to reemerge."
10.2307_4624592	2007	"This profile of Donna Shalala illustrates how it is possible to craft a career that moves along quite untraditional paths. Shalala was a political appointee who adopted characteristics that are usually associated with career public servants. Shalala's approach to career development can be useful to others who are thinking about a career development strategy. She did not ask whether she was qualified for a job but whether she was qualified to learn the job. At the same time, it is clear that she was able to apply experiences and lessons from diverse settings to new positions. Her career has been characterized not only by an in-and-out pattern but also by diversity within each of those settings. Her career pattern shows how Shalala was able to reinforce her personal strengths of being a problem solver and respond to unpredictable opportunities."
10.2307_3110287	2002	"The modern theory that dominates our classrooms and training programs meets the needs of staff-oriented practitioners and public administration students. Line managers, present and future, are less well served by our offerings. Open systems and constructed reality describe both postmodern theory and the world faced by the line manager. Incorporating the learning principles imbedded in postmodernism would add diversity and strength to our MPA curricula."
10.2307_4624587	2007	"Nonprofit sector issues, both in public discourse and pedagogy, are too narrowly cast as problems confronting public-serving nonprofits and grant-making foundations. Consisting also of membership organizations, educational institutions, and political pressure groups, the sector constitutes a major force in society which, in its interactive entirety, might better be termed a ""social economy."" This social economy both influences and is shaped by public administration, and it is now very much under public scrutiny. The author raises seminal questions that challenge the mission, management, and resources of this critical sector of society."
10.2307_3542677	2006	"An ample academic literature discusses airports' utility as economic development anchors for metropolitan areas, yet very little is known about the administrative apparatus of these important local government enterprises. To better understand airport structure and management in the United States, directors of primary airports were surveyed. Based on this national survey, the administrative structure and position of airports with regard to local government-i.e., special district or functional department-were examined to determine the place these entities occupy on the local government management landscape, as well as the implications of retaining airport authorities in studies of special-purpose governments. This essay concludes that airport authorities do not follow the conventional form and function of special-purpose governments. Consequently, analyses of special-purpose governments should exclude airport authorities because these nonconforming entities may cloud rather than clarify our true understanding of special-purpose governments."
10.2307_3542564	2004	"Prescriptions for improving contracting focus on how public managers can negotiate, implement, and monitor contracts to enhance service delivery and save costs. Yet, the well-functioning markets that effective contracting requires cannot be taken for granted. All markets risk failure. Consequently, public managers must manage the market to ensure competition and the flow of information about vendor performance, effective contract practices, and so on. We supplement transaction-cost theory with scholarship on public management networks to evaluate refuse services in nine governments in the Columbus, Ohio, metropolitan area. Our analyses reveal that even in the case of refuse collection, where nonspecific asset investments and easily measured service outputs and outcomes enhance contracting success, public managers looking to improve service delivery still must manage the market and the network supporting it."
10.2307_3843934	2006	"Recent changes in federal personnel practices, ostensibly for the purpose of ""performance,"" serve to deprive the civil service of its moral content and hence to undermine its viability as an institution."
10.2307_4624547	2007	"Although education accounts for one-quarter of the United States' state and local government spending, employs one-third of all governmental employees, and consistently ranks as a high priority of citizens, public administration has neglected public education. This article considers the neglect of public education by public administration scholars, researchers, and practitioners and documents the sparse coverage of public education in textbooks, journals, books, professional association activities, and curricula. This neglect can be attributed to public administration's federal focus, ideological views about the relationship between public education and politics and resulting structural and organizational barriers, and the costs of overcoming these barriers. The separation limits the generalizability of public administration research and theory, harms policy development, constrains the capabilities of public administration program graduates, and impedes the success of public education. This article outlines steps needed to bring public education under the umbrella of public administration."
10.2307_27697889	2009	"Can a more collaborative form of public management correct for the historical link between social and economic status (SES) and political participation? New initiatives to involve the citizen directly in public decision making??citizen governance??aim to include a wider representation of groups in society because they draw from service users and seek to recruit hard-to-reach groups. To test the claim that citizen governance may be more representative than other acts of political participation, this essay reports data from the 2005 English and Welsh Citizenship Survey. Using descriptive statistics and regression analysis, it finds evidence that citizen governance is more representative than civic activities, especially for young people and ethnic minority communities. Policy makers can fine-tune their interventions to reach underrepresented groups without believing the citizen governance is a panacea for long-running biases in civic participation."
10.2307_40469080	2009	"Can grassroots government succeed on its own without state involvement? By comparing approaches in two metropolitan governments??neighborhood councils in Los Angeles and resident committees in Shanghai??Bin Chen of the City University of New York at Baruch College, Terry L. Cooper of the University of Southern California, and Rong Sun of Shanghai Tongji University underscore the need to understand the interrelationships among the political and administrative structures where these specific reforms are implemented. Their analysis points out that the efficacy of a government-initiated civic engagement program depends on a balanced combination of state involvement and community self organization."
10.2307_3542497	2004	"Scholars have long suspected the blanket description of bureaucrats as ""budget maximizers"" is simplistic and inaccurate. This article provides empirical grounds for questioning that description and enhances our understanding of bureaucratic fiscal preferences. Bureaucratic preferences for expansion are distributed along a continuum. A typology of agency heads' expansion preferences is developed and related to Downs's typology of bureaucrats. Data from eight surveys of state agency heads (1964-98) enable us to trace administrators' preferences for expansion over four decades. These preferences vary substantially in any single survey year and reflect trends across these years. Notably, a substantial proportion of agency heads opted for no expansion in their own agency's programs and expenditures or in the state's overall budget. This typology challenges conventional conceptions of bureaucrats' maximizing preferences, advances alternative interpretations about budget minimizing, and fills an important gap in budget and bureaucracy theory."
10.2307_3542597	2004	"Using historical and numerical analysis and the five-part schema, this study finds that over the past 50 years structural modifications and adaptations by American cities have generally followed the standard S curve of the diffusion of innovation. In tests of Kaufman's and Hirshman's theories of epochs of change from representativeness to administrative efficiency, this study determines that mayor-council cities have, in a standard innovation diffusion S curve, adopted many of the key features of council-manager cities, increasing their administrative efficiency. At the same time, council-manager cities, again in an S curve, have adopted many of the key features of mayorcouncil cities, increasing their political responsiveness. Fewer cities are now either distinctly mayorcouncil or council-manager in form, and most cities are structurally less distinct, constituting a newly merged or hybrid model of local government-the type III city."
10.2307_977538	2001	"On March 8, 1997, President Clinton announced the federal government's Welfare-to-Work Initiative, a major effort to provide job opportunities for welfare recipients in federal agencies. Using data from the U. S. Office of Personnel Management's Central Personnel Data File, the authors compare differences in job-retention outcomes for Welfare-to-Work employees and similar non-Welfare-to-Work employees in federal agencies. This approach provides an innovative way to measure job-retention by comparing job-retention outcomes of Welfare-to-Work employees against non-Welfare-to-Work employees. The findings suggest that Welfare-to-Work employees have greater odds of retaining their jobs than non-Welfare-to-Work employees. The results provide useful insights into the dynamics of job retention among welfare recipients who are hired into federal-sector employment."
10.2307_3542610	2004	"Revenue forecasts play an important role in the state government budget and policy process. These forecasts are generally reported to executive and legislative leaders as point estimates, with no acknowledgment of their corresponding risk and uncertainty. The revenue semaphores proposed in this article outline procedures by which revenue uncertainty directly influences the planning process. The goal is not to make forecasts more accurate, but to make discussions of budget and revenue alternatives more comprehensive. Explicitly incorporating risk and uncertainty measures into the budgeting process increases the degree of real-time budgeting and reduces some adverse effects of budget revisions after the fiscal year begins. The discussion occurs in the context of budget control, management, and policy making."
10.2307_976964	1997	"In most contemporary states ethnic conflict provides the context in which public administration (PA) must operate, the intermediary between the state and economic development. These relationships - hitherto neglected in most PA and economic development literature - are manifested both in the internal structures of PA (recruitment practices to government and government-related positions) and by government policies and programs that allocate resources and services differentially among members of competing ethnic communities. As PA tends to reflect the interests of the dominant ethnic community, aggrieved communities mobilize to demand redress, in the form of self-determination or more equitable treatment, by civil or violent means. Inter-ethnic or ethnic-state relationships may be regulated through PA by systematic preferences, individual market-merit processes, or power sharing arrangements. These alternatives are complicated by differential perceptions of what constitutes fairness and by intra-ethnic tensions and divisions. How PA in pursuit of economic development influences and is influenced by ethnic politics calls for enhanced attention by scholars and analysts."
10.2307_40469085	2009	"While international comparisons of anticorruption policies aboundy whether these policies are transferable and how they change inside national boundaries remain debatable. Kaifeng Yang of Florida State University proposes an institutional framework that emphasizes the role of congruence and ideas in institutional change. In comparing China to the United States, the author concludes that anticorruption institutional change is path dependent, as it is nested in fundamental political structures and meta-narratives. Professor Yang proposes the possibility that new ideas may cause gradual changes with radical results."
10.2307_977398	2003	"Over the years, the public administration literature has generated many different strands in the definition and conceptualization of citizenship. In theory and in practice, our understanding of what it means to be a citizen is in danger of being muddled amid the diversity of perspectives and the epistemological confusion generated in the contemporary discourse on the subject. My aim in this article is to clarify and elaborate a common thread that runs through our contemporary understanding of citizenship and to advance the general thesis that our brand of theorizing reflects an earlier tradition that embodies the conservative ethos of Aristotelian republicanism. Can such a tradition survive in modern American society?"
10.2307_3542599	2004	"Why is contracting used more frequently under some circumstances than others? What is its impact on spending for core mission and on service quality? These questions are explored with data from more than 1,000 Texas school districts. The evidence for a recent three-year period shows that contracting is negatively related to spending on school districts' central task and is not positively associated with district performance. Why, then, do districts contract? While several variables are associated with the degree of contracting, the most interesting is the relative size of a district's bureaucratic staff. Furthermore, the relationship between contracting and bureaucracy is reciprocal: Each is associated with subsequent growth in the other. The dynamic suggests an updated version of Parkinson's law. These findings indicate the need for researchers to probe the causes and consequences of contracting more thoroughly to help public managers assess this important option."
10.2307_976649	1997	"Attacks on government can undermine commitment to and confidence in professional public administration. These attacks should be examined from the perspective of the history, functions, and values of public administration. Dwight Waldo's thought provides such a perspective."
10.2307_977489	2003	"States and municipalities have privatized services in an effort to improve their cost-effectiveness and quality. Competition provides the logical foundation for an expectation of cost savings and quality improvements, but competition does not exist in many local marketplaces-especially in the social services, where governments contract primarily with nonprofit organizations. As government increases its use of contracting, it simultaneously reduces its own public-management capacity, imperiling its ability to be a smart buyer of contracted goods and services. This article examines two questions about the privatization of social services based on interviews conducted with public and nonprofit managers in New York state: Does social services contracting exist in a competitive environment? And do county governments have enough public-management capacity to contract effectively for social services? The findings suggest an absence of competition and public-management capacity, raising the question of why governments contract when these conditions are not met."
10.2307_4624689	2007	"In major disasters, local communities are often on their own for several hours or days. Local governments can play a key role in taking the initiative to protect their citizens. This essay compares the experience of New Orleans before, during, and after the catastrophe of Hurricane Katrina with the performance of Qinglong County, China, during the Tangshan earthquake of 1976. Qinglong County exemplifies local government taking initiative in risk assessment, decision making, operations, information sharing, and communications."
10.2307_977521	2003	"In Luther Gulick's classic essay ""Notes on the Theory of Organization,"" he argued that span of control structures relationships between leaders and subordinates in organizations. Commenting on the state of knowledge about span of control, Gulick lamented the lack of systematic research on what he viewed as three key determinants of span of control: diversification of function, time, and space. This study adopts Gulick's approach to studying span of control by examining the effects of diversity of function, time, and space in structuring relationships among personnel in a sample of 678 Texas public school districts. We then investigate Joan Woodward's link between span of control and organizational performance. Our results reveal that although Gulick was correct in asserting that diversity of function, time, and space play a role in determining how spans of control are structured, these variables have different meanings that depend on the level of organizational hierarchy analyzed."
10.2307_3110330	2002	"The proposed Traffic Stops Statistics Study Act of 2001-Title II of Senate Bill 19 of the 107th Congress-was the third consecutive legislative proposal aimed at addressing the perceived problems of racial profiling and police abuse in the detention of minority motorists for allegedly unjustifiable reasons. The measure followed Senate Bill 821 from the 106th Congress and House Bill 118 from the 105th Congress. This study looks at the purpose of these bills, explores the reasons supporters believe that federal policy mandating law enforcement agencies to collect racial data on motorists stopped and detained is needed, and examines a number of public policy questions that a Traffic Stops Statistics Study Act might raise."
10.2307_4624556	2007	"Ferrel Heady died on August 16, 2006, at his home in Albuquerque, New Mexico. Together with Fred Riggs, he is widely known and respected as one of the founders of comparative public administration. In this tribute to our friend and colleague, we touch on the highlights of his distinguished career as a scholar, an academic administrator, and a person who lived up to his own high standards of honesty and integrity in every aspect of his life. We assess his body of work, attempt to summarize its significance, and reproduce comments about him sent to us by his friends and colleagues. This tribute is accompanied by reflections on Ferrel written by Fred Riggs."
10.2307_4624583	2007	"Nearly two decades after the first Volcker Commission issued its report on the federal public service, the presidential appointment and confirmation process remains long, cumbersome, intensive, and embarrassing. As the evidence presented in this essay suggests, the process may attract people who are motivated more by personal rewards than by the intrinsic value of public service. Although recent administrations have displayed little enthusiasm for reforming the federal appointment process, the best hope for change may reside in future presidents' desire to assert tight political control over executive departments."
10.2307_3110006	2001	"Based on a national survey of police chiefs with a follow-up focus group, this article discusses budgetary strategies that police departments used to be successful in budgeting. The strategies include: using crime and workload data judiciously; capitalizing on sensational crime incidents; effectively getting the message out; carefully mobilizing interest groups; strategic planning; playing the federal grants game; working closely with the chief executive and elected officials; and involving all departmental staff levels in budgeting."
10.2307_977490	2003	"The poor are less likely than others to support the privatization of Social Security. What accounts for this income-based difference in public opinion? This article uses a new survey to explore attitudes toward privatization. The poor tend to believe the government will manage Social Security responsibly, expect that they will rely on Social Security as a primary source of income, and prefer to keep their money in the current system rather than save or invest it. Together, these expectations and beliefs explain much of the income gap in support of privatization."
10.2307_977524	2003	"Policy makers, public administrators, the media, and others are celebrating the ""success"" of the latest version of welfare reform, codified into law by the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996. Most often, success is defined in terms of declining case loads or some other economic measure-a practice that does not provide a true sense of the impact of policy changes such as welfare reform. Assessing the human impact of policy change requires more than evaluating economic outcomes; it requires knowing the resources of beneficiaries of social services and their conditions of life from various perspectives. Thus, we must strive for greater understanding about the sociocultural aspects of people's lives that create the whole person-aspects such as health, family and friendship networks, housing situations, public and private support service and program use, conditions of work, and so forth. This is how we come to understand one's quality of life. The present research creates a conceptual model of quality of life and illustrates the model using data from a follow-up study of former welfare recipients in a county in northern Virginia. Evaluation activities that are premised on a quality-of-life model will help policy actors understand the impact of policies and how public institutions can be managed strategically within their very complex contexts, especially in an era of welfare reform."
10.2307_4624565	2007	"Three newly established public agencies built regional rail projects in Los Angeles County from 1978 to 2002. The Los Angeles County Transportation Commission, the Los Angeles Metropolitan Transportation Authority, and the Alameda Corridor Transportation Authority were experiments in regional governance. Conventional understanding of these agencies only partially explains their successes and failures. One path to improved understanding is to combine research on the politics of designing new public agencies with research on cooperation in collective action problems. What emerges is an untold story of American politics: the evolution of mechanisms that promote cooperation. Four findings emerge: (1) conflict is inevitable; (2) public agencies can succeed despite the problems of politics; (3) successful regional solutions are intensely local; and (4) cooperation emerges from supply-side mechanisms that create new resources rather than reallocate existing resources. The limits of politics are neither random nor predestined-neither is the governance solution."
10.2307_3110172	2002	"Conditions of war lead to a style of teleocratic governance and administration that is at odds with the idea of civil association reflected in the American constitutional state. As a result, war can put our traditional notions of humanity, pluralism, and limited government at risk. In order to defend the values of civil association, public administrators should understand and appreciate the principles undergirding our constitutional system of governance and administration."
10.2307_3109985	1997	"During the Cold War, Congress and the president strengthened prohibitions on federal employment of gay men and lesbians, whom they deemed to be risks to national security. The Civil Service Commission and the Federal Bureau of Investigation developed bureaucratic procedures to prevent the hiring of homosexual applicants and to fire homosexual civil servants. The ban was not fully lifted until the early 1970s as a result of court rulings that, to justify dismissal, the bureaucracy needed to demonstrate a rational nexus between an employee's homosexual conduct and ""the efficiency of the service."" Since 1980, the Office of Personnel Management has prohibited discrimination in the personnel process on the basis of sexual orientation. Several federal agencies now explicitly prohibit discrimination against gay and lesbian employees, but legal protections for them remain weak. This article traces the history of federal policy toward gay and lesbian employees since World War II, examining the impact of electoral politics, the bureaucracy, the courts, and the gay movement. An earlier version of this paper was presented at the annual meeting of the American Political Science Association, Washington, DC, September 4, 1993."
10.2307_3542652	2006	"Do men and women manage differently? Do their efforts have different impacts on public program performance? Building from a formal treatment of public management and performance, this study investigates how the interaction of gender and management strategies influences organizational performance. Focusing on several hundred public organizations and their top managers over a three-year period, the analysis maps the gender question onto Mark Moore's distinction among managing upward toward political principals, downward toward organizational agents, and outward toward the networked environment. Findings indicate that women and men as top managers have different performance impacts, and these impacts vary by managerial function as well."
10.2307_25145735	2008	"The Winter Commission Report was centrally concerned with improving the performance of state and local governments. Since the issuance of the commission's report in 1993, the delivery of services by state and local government has been substantially changed by the growing role of nonprofit organizations in providing public services and representing citizen interests. As a result, state and local governments and nonprofit agencies are faced with complex governance challenges. The central argument of this paper is that despite the dramatic changes in the relationship between government and nonprofit organizations in recent years, the key tenets of the Winter Commission report-the need for improved training and education, greater transparency and accountability, more emphasis on performance, and improved citizen engagement-remain deeply relevant in improving the governance of the public services in an increasingly complex policy process and service delivery system at the state and local levels."
10.2307_976687	1997	"The decision to privatize state services is often a controversial one. What are the pitfalls commonly encountered, and how can a state avoid them? In Massachusetts, a healthy clash of interests between a Republican governor eager to privatize and a Democratic legislature responsive to state employees provides important lessons. Bruce Wallin finds that many mistakes, of both a political and policy nature, were made by an administrative crusade. The legislative response, a bill regulating privatization, suggests that it is best to establish a decision-making process for privatization that is well specified, inclusive, and ideally has some independent check on the decisions."
10.2307_3843916	2006	"To what extent do local government Web sites support practical, meaningful public involvement? Fifteen years after the adoption and diffusion of the World Wide Web, the answer to this question remains cloudy and controversial. The promise-and peril-of Web-based public involvement, known as e-democracy, has been widely debated. Much of the debate has focused on theoretical abstractions or extrapolations of current political or technological trends. Empirical studies have been limited to reports on pilot projects, case studies, or special population surveys. This paper contributes to our empirical understanding of the question. It reports results of a recent comprehensive survey of official government Web sites in the principal cities of the 100 largest U.S. metropolitan areas. In particular, it examines whether and how U.S. city government Web sites facilitate users' involvement in local public issues."
10.2307_977614	2001	"Following Behn's observation that scientists in other fields understand the big questions of their disciplines and focus attention and their discussions on those questions, public administration scholars have attempted to identify the ""big questions"" in public management and public administration. In this article, I suggest that scholars in public administration should also be attentive to the big questions of public administration education, those timeless and enduring concerns that speak to the basic perspectives that we bring to the educational process. Specifically, I identify four big questions: Do we seek to educate our students with respect to theory or to practice? Do we prepare students for their first jobs or for those to which they might aspire later? What are the appropriate delivery mechanisms for MPA courses and curricula? What personal commitments do we make as public administration educators? I argue that these big questions in public administration education are far more connected than we usually think, and by posing these questions in terms of processes of human development we can at least provide a framework through which we might develop more coherent answers to these big questions, answers that recognize and build on the diversity of our students and our faculty."
10.2307_3542644	2005	"Although public hearings are the most common form of citizen input, they often fail to achieve their objectives. This nationwide survey of city administrators identifies factors that contribute most to successful public hearings. The most successful hearings have (1) a greater number of prehearing educational methods, (2) more media types and greater media frequency in the formal presentation, (3) more control over speakers' presentation time, (4) greater use of open follow-up meetings, and (5) more use of newspaper and direct mail to communicate posthearing decisions to the public. The qualitative data reveal city managers' 10 critical factors that are essential to the success of public hearings: effectively notifying and educating the public before the hearing; carefully planning the meeting; giving a clear, media-rich presentation of the issues; properly facilitating the meeting; and conducting appropriate follow-up."
10.2307_27697890	2009	"Nonprofits represent a substantial group of third-party agents that deliver public services, yet little is known about the extent to which these organizations embrace participatory governance practices. Using survey data from nonprofit social service agencies in Michigan, the author examines how these organizations provide opportunities for client participation and identifies factors that contribute to these practices. Four methods of securing client involvement are examined: participation in agency work groups, client feedback surveys, advisory boards and committees, and client service on the agency board of directors. The results indicate that government funding plays a systematic role in promoting these activities within nonprofits. These findings carry important implications for the government-nonprofit contract relationship by demonstrating that government funding shapes the practices of nonprofits in ways that promote democratic governance."
10.2307_3110455	2000	"A persistent criticism of policy analysis is that it undermines basic democratic institutions and processes by replacing public participation with expert analysis. Many decision makers shun broader participation because of the complexity of an issue or the cost, uncertainty, and delay often associated with public involvement. This article presents a model for the systematic inclusion of public input into relatively complex public policy decisions. It outlines two determinants of success in public participation efforts: the purpose for public involvement and the nature of the issue; furthermore, it applies the model to two issues in recent Utah history that have involved public participation. Using these principles, decision makers should be able to design and implement public participation strategies that both inform the public about substantive policy questions and improve the quality of the final decision."
10.2307_977617	2001	"This article explores the process of appointing government ministers and senior executive officials in Israel. It provides several case studies of the appointment process in the 1990s, a period of hyperfragmentation in the Israeli parliament. These studies reveal evidence of gross irresponsibility in the appointment process, as well as a lack of a meaningful oversight and checks in the process. One consequence is that the Israeli High Court was asked to intervene and review and reject a number of these appointments. The article argues that although well meaning, this intervention represents a dangerous new trend; this new role for the Courts is both inappropriate and counterproductive. It is inappropriate because judicial intervention imposes a legal solution when a political solution is called for, and it is counterproductive because frequent judicial intervention weakens both the judiciary and the political process. The article concludes with a proposal for an alternative approach to cope with the lack of meaningful oversight in the political-appointment process."
10.2307_40469066	2009	"In the field of public administration practice, China has a history of several thousand years, whereas the United States has a much shorter history of hundreds of years of governance. In terms of the scholarly development of public administration in China, the roots of those intellectual resources can be traced far back, to Confuciuss ideology of governance and the ancient development of a civil service system some 2,000 years ago. In terms of the systematic development of public administration as an independent subject of learning, however, the United States has been a leader worldwide. Public administration as a discipline in the United States dates back to the late nineteenth century, with extensive scholarly research and publications in the early twentieth century (Follett 1926; Goodnow 1900; Taylor 1912; Weber 1922; White 1926). In the Chinese context, although there were occasional studies of public administration in the first half of the twentieth century, systematic study was deferred until the middle of the 1980s. They were only truly continued following the official launch of master of public administration degree programs at the beginning of the twenty-first century. In this respect, China was a latecomer, and Chinese scholars almost always date the study and scholarship in this field to about 1980. Over the past eighty years or so, the United States has established more than 200 MPA and related programs, while China has founded 100 MPA programs in just the past eight years. Recognizing the urgent need for MPA training, China is trying to catch up to the demand for social development and societal transition. Considering that China has a population of 1.3 billion, compared to a population of 300 million in the United States, it looks as if there is great potential for China to expand its MPA programs."
10.2307_977613	2001	"Recent research has questioned both the rigor and theoretical development of public administration research. The proposed solutions have generally endorsed a more academically oriented research agenda. Authors have discussed practitioner needs, but the focus has been on the appropriateness of different research methods rather than the types of knowledge needed. We seek to contribute to this ongoing debate by comparing the knowledge needs identified by members of the International City/County Management Association (ICMA) with 15 years of research in Public Administration Review. We found much published research matching the needs of ICMA members, but it focused on a relatively narrow range of topics. We recommend incorporating a concern for relevance into efforts to improve public administration research. This will help to ensure that we build a knowledge base that makes a substantial contribution to practice."
10.2307_3110452	2000	"Although improvisation stands outside of conventional models for rational policy making and Weberian administration, it is nonetheless prevalent in public life. This article argues that improvisation is both a natural consequence of bounded rationality as well as a product of cultural and personal predilections and environmental circumstances. Drawing on a number of instances of improvisation in public administration and policy making in Israel, it attempts to shed light on its uses, motives, and implications, as well as on the issues involved in considering its utility."
10.2307_3542612	2004	"What are the typical career paths of city managers serving in the nation's largest cities? This article examines the career paths of 113 city managers in council-manager cities with populations over 100,000. The authors identify four distinct career paths for city managers-long servers, lateral movers, ladder climbers, and-single city careerists-and find that city managers in the largest council-manager cities are commonly ladder climbers or single-city careerists. This research shows the stereotypical description of the ladder climber as the only career path is incomplete. Many large cities are providing opportunities for career development, making it unnecessary for city councils to select outsiders to fill top positions. While other research has shown that nearly four-fifths of city managers are hired from outside, only 54 percent of the city managers in the largest cities were outsiders at the time they were hired."
10.2307_4624669	2007	"The George W. Bush administration's doctrines of preemption and democratization through military action have been much debated. Discussants have included former members of the military, students of international relations and diplomacy, philosophers, and legal theorists, to name a few. Not surprisingly, the focus of these expostulations has been on the utility of hard and soft power, the international ripple effects of military action and state toppling, and the legal and moral propriety of preemption. For the most part, public administrators have little participated in these debates. This is regrettable, for the central question nestled within any debate over public policy is the question of plausibility. Can this policy be executed successfully? The governance challenges in postconflict states are profound. Who should rule? How should the state be reconstructed? What administrative structures should be erected? Who should staff government offices and bureaucracies, and what principles should guide them? If preemption and democratization are to succeed, then these questions must be answered. Rajiv Chandrasekaran is an assistant managing editor of the Washington Post. His book Imperial Life in the Emerald City: Inside Iraq's Green Zone (Alfred A. Knopf, 2006) is an examination of the Coalition Provisional Authority that governed Iraq from April 2003 through June 2004. Mr. Chandrasekaran has served as the journalist in residence for the International Reporting Project at the Johns Hopkins School for Advanced International Studies and as a public policy scholar at the Woodrow Wilson International Center in Washington, D. C. In March 2007, Mr. Chandrasekaran was interviewed by Kevin Kosar on behalf of the Public Administration Review."
10.2307_3109951	1999	"A growing body of literature has found there are important differences in the priorities, leadership styles, and policy agendas of women and men public officials. In this article we examine and compare the behavior of men and women city managers. Explorations of gender and city management have been entirely over-looked in the public administration and women and politics literature. In the end, we find that women city managers are more likely than their male counterparts to incorporate citizen input, facilitate communication, and encourage citizen involvement in their decision-making process. This finding emerged when women and men stated their motivations for involvement in city administration, and when they explained how they made decisions. As a result, women may provide a distinct ""voice"" in the politics of city management."
10.2307_3542508	2005	"This article describes an empirical study of a select set of mid-level managers in the federal government. The study examined the participant's capacity to engage in the kind of self-reflexivity that Michael Harmon calls for in his 1995 book Responsibility as Paradox: A Critique of Rational Discourse on Government. Specifically, it focuses on the reflections of two participants, both of whom asserted a direct relationship between their religious beliefs and their work as public administrators. Three implications for the discipline and practice of public administration are developed."
10.2307_3542628	2004	"This article examines the consequences of the decentralization process that is under way in Costa Rica and which may undermine, rather than bolster, democracy in that country. I first outline three key contextual variables relating to the reform process: existing sociopolitical realities (constructing local legitimacy), the dynamics of the reform process (bottom-up versus top-down), and the timing or sequencing of the proposed reforms (what is being decentralized and when). Though I focus here on Costa Rica, these three variables are generally applicable in any case of decentralization. After considering these contextual factors, I evaluate the likelihood of four negative side effects arising from the ongoing decentralization process: party-system fragmentation, reinforced or mutated clientelism, intermunicipal conflict and polarization, and local government instability. Early evidence suggests that some of these effects, particularly party-system fragmentation and municipal instability, have begun to manifest themselves."
10.2307_3110103	2003	"The credible constraint of morally hazardous or opportunistic behavior can enhance efficiency. This idea is applied to an examination of local government institutions to identify how council-manager government constrains opportunism in economic development by substituting low-power bureaucratic incentives for high-power electoral incentives. A panel design isolates changes in the use of development strategies or instruments in 516 cities. The central argument presented here is that the Progressive ideology of the separation of politics and administration, institutionalized in the council-manager plan, allows administrators and elected officers to more easily resist opportunistic behavior. Economic and political forces have significant effects that are different for mayor-council communities than for council-manager communities. The influence of strategic planning is evident in council-manager cities, but not in mayor-council communities. Under council-manager government, development is carried out in a discriminating manner, leading to lower levels of financial incentives but more loan and business-attraction programs. In conclusion, the authors discuss how the career patterns of city managers are shaped by the incentive structures created by the council-manager plan."
10.2307_976693	1997	"What impact have unfunded environmental mandates had on local governments? Carol Cimitile, Victoria Kennedy, Henry Lambright, Rosemary O'Leary, and Paul Weiland's two-pronged research studied seven local governments in New York State in 1994. First, they examined if and how these local governments prioritized risks (such as environmental and public health problems) to decide what environmental areas should have priority. Second, they examined how local governments were paying for the implementation of environmental mandates. The division of responsibility for environmental programs differs dramatically among the seven local governments studied. Common themes, however, were discovered and are discussed. The authors conclude that the problems posed by unfunded environmental mandates are the result of a number of factors including fragmentation (institutional, scientific, legal, and political), lack of information, and the rigidity of laws and regulations. They call for a national reexamination of environmental regulation."
10.2307_977401	2003	"This article proposes a theory of how mandated institutional cooperation transforms into individual cooperative behavior. Using qualitative strategies, we draw insights about cooperation in three public-sector efforts of labor-management cooperation (LMC). We report an association between critical shifts in the roles of stakeholders and the change from adversarial to cooperative labor relations. While managers became team players along with their employees, labor representatives assumed managerial responsibilities. These changes were also associated with a service-oriented perspective, better understanding of the other's experiences, and a view of cooperation as partnership. At the heart of these transformations, we found critical changes in communication patterns associated with incrementally growing levels of trust. We propose a model that depicts the links between collective and individual levels of organizational action related to LMC. We conclude that the positive shifts in mental models regarding work and the value of cooperation justify the promotion of LMC efforts."
10.2307_4624545	2007	"This essay addresses four questions by comparing the management capacities and challenges of congregations, faith-based organization, and secular organizations that provide human services: (1) What role, if any, do congregations and faith-based organizations currently play in the social service delivery system? (2) Are congregations interested in changing their role in the social service delivery system? (3) Compared to faith-based and secular organizations, do congregations have the capacity to adapt to new roles in the social service delivery system? Finally, (4) compared to faith-based and secular organizations, do congregations have similar service capacities and management challenges? The findings indicate that although more than half of congregations already provide some type of health or human services, they provide a narrower range of services, consider these services a lower priority, and seem to encounter more extensive management challenges than faith-based and secular organizations."
10.2307_977598	2001	"Geographic information systems (GIS) provide unparalleled power to examine social, economic, and political circumstances. As this technology becomes more prominent in the public sector, it brings new challenges to democratic decision making. How we choose to apply this technology will determine the relationship between those who control technology and those who engage in governance. This article provides examples of how GIS is being used for policy implementation and then explores the democratic implications of GIS."
10.2307_3110450	2000	"When Bill Clinton embraced national service as one of his administration's priorities, he took a step forward on two of his key initiatives. Not only was national service a new initiative in its own right, but Clinton also held it up as a model of his efforts to reinvent government. It would be an exemplar of government that is catalytic, competitive, decentralized, and results oriented. This case study examines the theory and reality of reinvention. The Corporation for National Service and its programs have come under fire for being more political than catalytic, being simultaneously too centralized and too decentralized, and pursuing too many unclear goals. This article seeks to identify discontinuities between the rhetoric and the reality of reinvention in this instance and draw lessons for public-sector reform."
10.2307_25145677	2008	"Governments increasingly require administrators to develop outcome measurements that reflect a program's impact on society. But standard approaches to performance measurement have neglected the impact on citizenship outcomes-the individual civic capacities and dispositions and social bonds of civic reciprocity and trust. The concept is adapted from the growing policy feedback literature in political science, which offers strong empirical evidence that certain policies have measurable effects on citizenship outcomes such as political participation, social capital, a sense of civic belonging, and self-worth as a citizen. Using the Program Assessment Rating Tool as an example, the authors demonstrate the failure of performance assessments to consider the civic implications of public policies. They argue that performance management systems should focus on citizenship outcomes and offer a series of suggestions on how to measure such outcomes."
10.2307_977642	2000	"In this article, we examine the implications of the reinvention movement for democratic governance, broadly defined. The most basic premise of the reinvention movement is a belief that the accumulation of the narrowly defined self-interests of many individuals can adequately approximate the public interest. By ""narrowly defined,"" we mean the interests of individuals as they privately apprehend them, unmediated by participation in a process of civic discourse. To illustrate the centrality of this assumption to the implicit theory of reinvention, we consider three of its elements-its use of the market model, its emphasis on customers rather than citizens, and its glorification of entrepreneurial management. We then examine the implications of the self-interest assumption, which entails a rejection of democratic citizenship, civic engagement, and the public interest, broadly conceived."
10.2307_3542480	2005	"Congress established the Federal Home Loan Banks (FHLBs) in 1932 to pursue the public purpose of homeownership. Recently, three views of their mission have emerged; one is that their purpose is to help small banks to remain viable. Why did their mission expand in this direction? We argue that mission expansion is a process that is better understood in terms of behavioral choice than public choice. Change began when expert attention was directed to small banks in rural areas and officials innovated within the existing rules to address their needs. Recognizing the FHLBs' usefulness, community bankers sought a more fundamental change in their practice. Responding to the general interest in preserving small banks' viability, legislative entrepreneurs advanced permissive rule changes. These were implemented to different extents in individual FHLBs in response to local needs. The case illustrates the usefulness of the behavioral-choice paradigm for understanding change in public agencies and suggests legitimacy for mission change and the value of maintaining publicly directed administrative capacity."
10.2307_3843945	2006	"This study investigated differences in general values, work values and organizational commitment among 549 private sector, public sector, and parapublic sector knowledge workers. No differences in general values were observed across sectors, although five significant work value differences were revealed: parapublic employees value work that contributes to society more than public servants, who value it more than private sector employees; parapublic employees value opportunities for advancement less than both public and private sector employees; public servants value intellectually stimulating and challenging work more than parapublic employees; and private sector employees value prestigious work more than public servants. Private sector employees displayed greater organizational commitment than the employees in the other two sectors. Overall, the findings suggest only limited value differences among employees of the various sectors. The finding of some work value differences between employees in the public and parapublic sectors suggests that these two groups merit separate consideration in comparative studies such as this one."
10.2307_27697912	2009	"The current global credit crisis is unfolding in a context in which new dynamics in the engagement of the public sector and the market are taking shape. This article explores some of these dynamics, especially the reemergence of (re)nationalization initiatives, as well as the growing use of private methodologies for asset management on the part of some governments, which behave as both financial market players and domestic economic stabilizers. Hence, the article discusses the return of the state as a traditional ""public leviathan"" involved in financial regulation, as well as the work of sovereign wealth funds. The author concludes that at the heart of capitalism's endurance lies this diversity of public responses, which ultimately reveal governments' adaptable agendas and heterogeneous tasks."
10.2307_25145699	2008	"Newly elected presidents oftentimes set out to reform the executive branch. This has been the norm for more than 100 years, and indications are that the next president will follow this pattern. The authors have had firsthand experience over the past 15 years with White House-led government reform efforts. They provide their insights on President Bill Clinton's reinventing government initiative and President George W. Bush's management agenda efforts. Based on their experience, they offer lessons to the next president's team on what they might do to get a reform effort started successfully and how to get reform initiatives implemented and sustained."
10.2307_27697888	2009	"Nancy Alfaro is the quintessential practitioner of collaborative public management. More than that, she is a collaborative public manager focused on delivering customer service. Finding herself in the midst of a flurry of activity when San Francisco mayor Gavin Newsom studdenly ordered her to allow same-sex marriages in 2004, she pulled together the resources to perform more than 1,000 weddings in three days. Now, as director of San Francisco's 311 Customer Service Center, Alfaro oversees an operation that has reduced the number of telephoe numbers residents may need to call for information and nonemergency services from 2,300 to just one. How Ms. Alfaro accomplished these remarkable tasks can be the source of fruitful lessons for other public officials."
10.2307_976565	1998	"Privatization is, for many, the contemporary answer to inefficient government administration. But when public functions are relegated to the nongovernmental sector, more is altered than mere organizational arrangements to promote governmental economy. While such transfers may offer efficiencies, they may simultaneously enable government and its officials to escape legal responsibility for actions that are permitted, encouraged, controlled, or paid for by the state. The rights of citizens at the hands of official authority are protected by the Constitution and an array of public laws; at the hands of private parties, very different and less protective rules apply. This article makes the case that contemporary judicial treatment of the transfer of government authority to ""private"" third parties, though inconsistent, is implicated in a wholesale loss of government accountability. The authors argue that the existence of an effective public accountability scheme requires a coherent understanding of ""state action""-both before and after privatization decisions. Toward that end they outline a four-step inquiry for the recognition of state responsibility so that government accountability is assured and citizen rights are preserved."
10.2307_3542481	2005	"Interpretations of the emergence of the New Public Management are split. The champions of the movement present it as a new administrative paradigm that departs sharply from past thinking and practice, whereas skeptics argue it has evolved incrementally from past administrative traditions. To assess these views, this article examines recent administrative innovations in the human services that broadly reflect the New Public Management. The findings suggest that these innovations have built incrementally on past reforms in the human services field, supporting the skeptics' claim that the New Public Management represents an evolution and renewal of historical trends in public administration."
10.2307_3843913	2006	"Analogizing the U.S. Department of Homeland Security to a corporate conglomerate consisting of multiple, formerly independent operating units with little in common and even less history of cooperation, this response to Professor Charles Wise prescribes the ""bitter medicine"" of interoperable communications. The critical function of assuring homeland security and disaster preparedness cannot depend on the uncertain trajectory of adaptive response."
10.2307_25145599	2008	"Does compliance with rules ensure better program performance and accountability? Since the 1980s, many scholars have answered no to this question, arguing that as managers attempt to comply with a growing thicket of rules, they often lose sight of the performance of their agencies and programs. Even the defenders of a rules-based approach have tended to view it as a necessary, though inconvenient, means of ensuring that democratic values and public rights are protected in the functioning of government. But does compliance with rules inevitably result in a loss of efficiency and effectiveness in the performance of public projects? This essay presents a case study of a public works project and three additional case summaries to demonstrate a theoretical proposition that compliance with rules for contracting and competitive selection of contractors can be an essential element of both a project's success and its accountability."
10.2307_976562	1998	"Public administration is a political institution. This article elaborates on this essential fact of politics and government and explores its implications for public management. It shows how this fact leads to the central problem of administration and management. It considers the normative demands this fact places on political leaders. Finally, the article calls for a conception of public management grounded in regime politics and considers the educational requirements and leadership standards that follow from it."
10.2307_3110324	2002	"How can public officials be held accountable, and yet avoid the paradoxes and pathologies of the current mechanisms of accountability? The answer, claims Harmon (1995), is dialogue. But what exactly is dialogue, and how is it created? More importantly, how can dialogue ensure accountability? To address these questions, I begin with a brief description of dialogue and its basic features, distinguishing it from other forms of communication. An example illustrates how dialogue occurs in actual practice. Not only does dialogue demonstrate the intelligent management of contradictory motives and forces, it also supports Harmon's claim that it can resolve the accountability paradox and avoid the atrophy of personal responsibility and political authority. I suggest that dialogue's advantage outweighs its cost as a mechanism of accountability under a particular set of conditions: when public officials confront ""wicked problems"" that defy definition and solution, and when traditional problem-solving methods have failed, thus preventing any one group from imposing its definition of the problem or its solutions on others."
10.2307_25145678	2008	"This paper examines and compares, according to the New Public Management approach, the U.S. watchdog, the Government Accountability Office, in its ability to oversee and call to account the executive branch of government, and its U.K. counterpart, the National Audit Office. Results of this examination indicate that the Government Accountability Office is more effective than its U.K. counterpart. Its greater effectiveness is attributable to the fact that it derives its powers and legitimacy from a written constitution; in contrast, in the United Kingdom there is no equivalent document defining the relationship between the state and the citizenry. As a consequence, the powers, duties, and self-perception of the National Audit Office are significantly weaker and more mutable than those of the Government Accountability Office."
10.2307_3110353	2002	"In July 1995, the American Society for Public Administration's Endowment Board established the Donald C. Stone Fund to honor the memory of this public administration legend. Income from this fund is used to sponsor a lecture or symposium at ASPA's national conference, which reflects Stone's varied interests and contributions to the field. This year marked the seventh Donald C. Stone Lecture. On March 26, Philip Rutledge was ASPA's Stone Lecturer and gave the following speech."
10.2307_40469022	2009	"Professor Ali Farazmand's thought-provoking article advances the argument that the ""administrative capacity to manage"" governance and economic systems in the new age of ""rapid change, hyper-complexity, and globalization"" needs to be designed at both the macro and the micro levels. There is no doubt that traditional models of governance and public administration are no match for the challenges of the new chaotic environment, particularly in the aftermath of the outbreak of the global financial crisis that has largely discredited a world economic order founded on Anglo-American financial capitalism. Building administrative capacity worldwide is an imperative of our time."
10.2307_3843904	2006	"In 1996, French authorities-committed to developing an innovative, decentralized style of public intervention in a country with a reputation for administrative conservatism and a historical bias toward centralization-created the Regional Hospital Agencies. The author asks whether these agencies exemplify the modernization of French public administration. A survey of all 26 such agencies indicates that they did introduce novel management practices and do, in fact, illustrate New Public Management ""? la fran??aise. """
10.2307_40468974	2009	"In this article, the authors describe the changes that have taken place in the Norwegian civil service over the past 30 years, focusing on demographic changes in education and gender and on changes in civil servants' tasks, attitudes, and contact patterns. The changes are analyzed using tenure, structural, and demographic perspectives. The unique empirical database is provided by surveys conducted every 10 years of civil servants in the ministries since 1976. The main empirical findings are that there has been a combination of robustness and change. The findings show little support for the generational version of a tenure perspective, meaning that civil servants are not living in the past. The structural perspective, illustrated by the importance of formal position, best explains the variations in civil servants' contact patterns and attitudes, followed by the career version of a tenure perspective. Demography, as represented by different educational backgrounds and gender, also has an effect."
10.2307_3110285	2002	"Privatization is intended to improve public services by introducing competition and choice. Does privatization of social services result in competition? To answer this we studied New York City's experience with contracts for three services: shelters for homeless adults, home care, and employment training. A total of 132 contract awards to nonprofit agencies were examined. The evidence suggests the procurement procedures were competitive and followed good practices. There was significant competition in terms of the number of announcements issued, the number of requests for proposals distributed, and the number of proposals ultimately submitted-an average of 2.48 proposals per award. Contracting for homeless shelters has produced a voucher-like system with desirable features. Vouchers are also used for some employment training and could be used for home care. Such systems can introduce even more competition and choice for clients of social services. Problems of contracting with nonprofit agencies are reviewed."
10.2307_3843912	2006	This article analyzes performance and organizational issues revealed by the governmental response to Hurricane Katrina. It reviews and analyzes the organizational changes made in the federal government to address homeland security and presents several proposals for reorganization suggested by policy makers in the aftermath of Katrina. A management approach rooted in adaptive management is presented for use in the ongoing process of organizing for homeland security.
10.2307_25145651	2008	"Five states now provide funding for stem cell research, and many states are developing or debating stem cell research policies. Despite this interest, little data exist to help policy makers design policies or forecast the impact of new legislation. This article reports novel data from two surveys: one directed at those most affected by these policies-stem cell scientists-and one at a group of biomedical researchers working in less contentious fields. These data identified relatively high mobility among stem cell scientists, particularly in states with restrictive policies, and a strong preference for states with permissive policies. These findings suggest that state-specific policies may prove to be effective recruiting tools. They also suggest specific recruitment strategies and highlight the importance of first-mover advantage as states compete for the same limited pool of mobile scientists. This research aims to provide a factual basis to support ongoing policy formulation in the area."
10.2307_3110286	2002	"Through an examination of the implementation of the 1996 Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Act in the state of Mississippi, we explore the adequacy of traditional two-actor principal-agent theory. Using this as our lens, we suggest that the choices made by Mississippi in the area of welfare reform to privatize much of the work and to add several layers to the existing principal-agent relationship substantially reduced accountability and the effectiveness of the monitoring systems. We conclude that not only is traditional principal-agent theory an insufficient tool for understanding the complex interrelationship between democratic actors in this particular case, the decisions of the state of Mississippi to complicate the principal-actor relationship through privatization also undermined the reform effort itself in ways that may have general implications for other like-minded efforts in other policy areas."
10.2307_40469019	2009	"Professor Ali Farazmandhas written a manifesto for administrative action in an effort to improve public governance and administration capacity not only for today but also for tomorrow, which is highly volatile and uncertain. Farazmand's earlier works, especially his essay ""Globalization and Public Administration"" (PAR, November/December 1999), are familiar to many students and scholars in public administration around the world."
10.2307_977476	1999	"This study examines whether reinventing government is the state reform wave of the 1990s. Using a mailed survey of more than 1200 agency heads, who represent 93 types of agencies across all 50 states, it examines the extent to which agencies have implemented 11 reinvention reforms. Although some proposals are more widely adopted than others, correlation analysis indicates that state agencies consider the reinvention reforms as a package or program. A scale measuring the degree of ""reinvention implementation"" at the agency level is developed, and a general model consisting of five categories of explanatory variables is proposed and tested to account for variation in implementation. Categories of independent variables include (1) state reform efforts, (2) agency type, (3) agency characteristics, (4) influence of the environment of the agency, and (5) agency director's background and attitudes. While the results indicate that agencies are selectively adopting specific reinvention reforms-most notably, strategic planning and some reforms addressing customer service-and that a few states are more active than others, the principal conclusion is that a concerted reinvention movement does not appear to be underway across state governments."
10.2307_3843917	2006	"Trust in government has been declining for more than three decades now. E-government has been proposed as a way to increase citizen trust in government and improve citizen evaluations of government generally. Using two-stage models to analyze recent Pew survey data, this research explores the relationship between e-government use, attitudes about e-government, and trust in government. There is a statistically significant relationship between trust and use of a local government Web site, as well as other positive assessments of federal and local governments. The evidence suggests that e-government can increase process-based trust by improving interactions with citizens and perceptions of responsiveness. The findings are theoretically important for reconciling the conflicting research on the effects of e-government and for understanding variations by level of government. Citizen attitudes toward government, including trust, are core concerns for democratic governance and public administration."
10.2307_977462	2000	"Did the bombing of the federal building in Oklahoma City affect the public's perception of terrorism as a political issue and their perceptions of individual risk and personal vulnerability? The author finds that the bombing in Oklahoma City altered neither the public's assessment of personal risk nor its reported behavior. Public opinion on terrorism and crime share three patterns: (1) perceived risk of victimization and the likely consequences affect public apprehension; (2) the voiced sense of personal security bears a direct relationship to the relative familiarity of the setting; and (3) the public shows resistance to the media's portrayal of risk. Opinion data indicate that domestic terrorism is likely to be seen as important in general and in the abstract, but with low personal risk, little impact on individuals' routine behavior, and, consequently, low political salience. In light of terrorism's purpose of inducing fear and the public's generally placid response on a personal level, the author concludes that the bombing failed as an act of domestic terrorism."
10.2307_3542584	2005	"This article applies the concepts of organization field and accountability environment to a government-funded program. It argues that the formula for accountability inspired by agency theory-define performance standards, measure performance, and sanction based on measured performance-is frequently impossible to apply because program accountability can be an emergent property arising from the actions of the major actors in a program's field. Studying a program reform of social service transportation in Kentucky, it illustrates the utility of conceptualizing accountability as an emergent property of the program's field. After the principle actors in this program field-the transportation broker, the state, the transportation provider (such as a taxi company), and the riders-established their roles, there was a decline in program cost per rider and a reduction in waste and fraud. The article concludes with implications for designing more accountable programs."
10.2307_4096576	2006	Hurricane Katrina revealed a lack of preparedness in disaster management networks covering the New Orleans area. This paper focuses on the operation of networks in preparing to evacuate residents in advance of a major disaster. There are two cases: the relatively successful evacuation of residents who left by private conveyance and the widely publicized failure to provide for those who could not or would not leave on their own. We trace the actions and inactions of various players to reach conclusions about the strengths and weaknesses of networks in the special circumstances of disaster preparation.
10.2307_40468968	2009	"In light of the blurring between sectors, it is critical not only to understand public organizations, but also to identify factors that contribute to the achievement of public outcomes across sectors. To what extent does organizational ""publicness"" lend insight to understanding and managing for public outcomes? By integrating the theory of dimensional publicness with recent work on public values, this analysis presents a framework that defines realized publicness as public outcomes predicted in part by institutions embodying public values. Based on insights from neo-institutional theory, managing for public outcomes, or managing publicness, requires attention to the combined effects of regulative, associative, and cultural-cognitive public value institutions. This analysis concludes with a timely application of the realized publicness framework to mortgage lending, demonstrating the importance of conceptualizing influences from diverse types of public value institutions when evaluating a particular initiative, such as the Community Reinvestment Act, and mortgage outcomes."
10.2307_977059	1997	"How should government improve the Job Opportunities and Basic Skills Training Program (JOBS), the employment program intended to move welfare recipients into work or training? JOBS is the nation's most ambitious effort at welfare reform, yet Washington has given local operators little guidance about how to run it. Lawrence Mead finds that one reason for this is a belief among federal officials and most experts that only experimental evaluations can tell us how to improve a program. He believes that JOBS can be improved using existing evaluations coupled with analyses of administrative data. He illustrates with his own research on Wisconsin, a state that has used JOBS to help drive its welfare rolls down. He concludes that federal officials could give local programs more guidance, but also that reform depends mostly on capable administration at the local level."
10.2307_4624655	2007	"Given local regional, national, and global events of the last few years and the ever-increasing service roles and expectations of county governments, American counties warrant greater scholarly attention. To guide researchers, the research agenda published in this journal 15 years ago has been refined and expanded. This 11-point agenda includes fiscal capacity and responsibility; the role of structure, politics, and political participation; intergovernmental relations and networking; professionalism; service delivery; environmental issues; population changes; managing conflict and promoting integration; terrorism and security; information technology; and economic development. In addition, five database concerns and needs that pose significant challenges to researchers are identified and presented for consideration."
10.2307_977552	1998	"State administration has often been referred to as the hidden branch of American state governments. This below-the-horizon component of state government has been subjected to intensified sets of fiscal pressures, federal mandates, selective devolution, and implementation issues. More attention needs to be focused on the administrative and managerial leaders of state government because they influence most, if not all, aspects of state policies and programs. This essay examines long-term trends in the qualities of state administrative leadership from the 1960s to the 1990s. Most state agencies are headed by accomplished professionals who are better educated and more diverse in demographic characteristics and professional experiences than ever before. These administrators are embedded in combinations of horizontal and vertical relationships that have evolved across several decades. These evolving features and relationships constitute, in cumulative terms, a micro-level revolution in state administrative leadership. The larger implications of our findings are that the states are well positioned, administratively, to confront the challenges of the twenty-first century."
10.2307_4624696	2007	"This article argues that cognition is central to performance in emergency management. Cognition is defined as the capacity to recognize the degree of emerging risk to which a community is exposed and to act on that information. Using the case of Hurricane Katrina to illustrate the collapse of the standard model of emergency management without a clear focus on the role of cognition, the author reframes the concept of intergovernmental crisis management as a complex, adaptive system. That is, the system needs to adjust and adapt its performance to fit the demands of an ever-changing physical, engineered, and social environment. The terms of cognition, communication, coordination, and control are redefined in ways that fit the reality of practice in extreme events. A reframed intergovernmental crisis management system may be conceived as a dynamic interorganizational system that is characterized by four primary decision points: (1) detection of risk, (2) recognition and interpretation of risk for the immediate context, (3) communication of risk to multiple organizations in a wider region, and (4) self-organization and mobilization of a collective, community response system to reduce risk and respond to danger."
10.2307_25145731	2008	"The Winter Commission's aspirations for improvement of governance at the state and local level resulted in proposals to modernize public institutions and systems to remove the barriers on executive and managerial authority to act. Improving government performance and accountability to citizens requires leadership to empower employees by reducing rules, increasing discretion, and rewarding innovation. The performance measurement movement and its related performance management movement are public management trends of wide influence in state and local government that are both an adjunct to, and a reflection of those aspirations. Case studies of cities that have sought to develop and use performance measurement and engage citizens demonstrate great potential to improve governance and manage for results that citizens want. But even exemplary jurisdictions face challenges using evidence-based, data-driven performance management approaches. Promoting best practice requires better scholarship to understand the determinants of successful implementation, adoption, and use of performance measurement. The outcomes of performance management systems are generally unmeasured and little is known about their cost effectiveness or endurance over time. The promise is there, but our expectations should be tempered."
10.2307_977599	2001	"This article addresses the question of whether operational efficiency is recognized and rewarded by the private funders that support nonprofit organizations in fields ranging from education to social service to arts and beyond. Looking at the administrative efficiency and fundraising results of a large sample of nonprofit organizations over an 11-year period, we find that nonprofits that position themselves as cost efficient-reporting low administrative to total expense ratios-fared no better over time than less efficient appearing organizations in the market for individual, foundation, and corporate contributions. From this analysis, we suggest that economizing may not always be the best strategy in the nonprofit sector."
10.2307_3110016	2002	"Public management reforms often are portrayed as part of a global wave of change, and all organizational change is interpreted within a single reform paradigm that is rooted in economics and market-based principles. Reforms outside this paradigm go unnoticed. This article examines the assertion that different drivers of change competing with the dominant focus of management discourse remain present and influence the direction of reform. It presents three alternative drivers of change rooted in normative values and provides evidence of their relevance from three national cases. Normative influences are reflected in a stream of activities occurring within the same time period in different civil service systems. The direction of public management practice cannot be seen as fully determined by any one approach to government reform or as traveling in only one direction. Understanding the balance among competing drivers of change is a key to interpreting both contemporary and future administrative reform."
10.2307_3542637	2005	"The bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) outbreak in the United Kingdom is regarded as one of the worst public policy crises the British government has experienced during the postwar era. In material terms, it has led to the slaughter of 3.3 million cattle and estimated economic losses of ?3.7 billion. In administrative terms, the crisis brought about the dissolution of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. This article examines the institutional context in which decisions about the scientific evidence on BSE were made. The authors argue that a centralized system in which government agencies control science for government is inherently vulnerable to alliances of experts and interest groups that undermine the credible assessment of public health and safety risks. Specific societal conditions may encourage risk-opportunistic behavior among policy makers that is conducive to delays and inaction until such time as the evidence of a health risk becomes overwhelming."
10.2307_3843919	2006	"Philanthropies and government agencies interested in children's issues are encouraging localities to improve the process of collecting, linking, and sharing microdata and aggregated summary statistics. An implicit assumption of these efforts is that outcomes will improve as a result of the new approaches. However, there has been little systematic study of these efforts. In this article, we examine efforts to improve data practice in 15 distressed American cities. Interviews conducted in these cities revealed variation in the types of information collected, dissemination, and intended audiences. We identify significant challenges to these efforts, including adequate resources, turf battles, technical problems, access to information sources, inconsistent leadership, and absence of political will. We find that little is known about the impact of these initiatives on decision making. Assumptions that improved data practice will lead to improved policy making have not yet been realized in these cities."
10.2307_27697866	2009	"Current theories of community-based collaborative governance arrangements rely on the presence (or absence) of certain antecedent community conditions as well as incentives for institutional change deriving from the socio-political and economic environment. The combination of antecedent conditions and incentives is helpful in understanding why collaboratives emerge and succeed in ""easy"" cases (strong incentives, conducive antecedent conditions). Yet the combination is of little help in understanding the institutional change puzzle for collaboratives in ""tough"" cases (strong incentives, poor antecedent conditions). Examination of a ""tough"" case in the Blackfoot watershed (Montana), which eventually blossomed into a successful collaborative, shows the importance of a particular set of new ideas, or shared norms, around which participants coalesced. These new ideas for understanding public problems, the community itself, and the relationships among stakeholders, became a broad conceptual framework for guiding stakeholder interaction as they attempted to manage the many public problems facing the watershed."
10.2307_4096600	2006	"Trends of female access to and presence in responsible governmental positions have gained substantial attention. The research reported here assesses and seeks convergence on several issues associated with gender representation. It extends the research by focusing on top executive posts in American state governments. In particular, the presence of women agency heads in all 50 states is examined from 1970 through 2000 using the lenses of passive representativeness and active representation. The authors find, first, that women face fewer blockages in securing top posts-the glass ceilings are cracking. Second, womens access to peak executive positions springs from more solid educational, career, and organizational foundations or ""floors. "" Third, lateral career movements are penetrating the ""walls""surrounding traditionally male-dominated agency types. The essay concludes with a framework for understanding relationships involving passive representativeness, active representation, and representative results. That framework assists in shifting attention toward the consequences of both passive and active representation."
10.2307_40469026	2009	"ASPA's future is intertwined with institutional trends in public administration, shaped especially by the directions of today's network governance. The implications for the future of ASPA and of other public administration professional associations are significant. In the author's view, ASPA must hold on to its unique generalist niche, but she counsels that ASPA should pay closer attention to advancing democratic and social equity issues throughout government."
10.2307_977481	1999	"Vermont's Agency of Human Services, in partnership with other state Departments and with regional collaboratives, has adopted an ""outcomes"" or ""results"" approach to measuring progress toward agreed-upon goals. Each of the outcomes is measured by several key indicators. The Community Profiles, now in their fourth year of publication, embody this framework for 60 regions of the state. The outcomes and indicators span the areas of maternal and child health, school readiness and success, youth behavior, economic vitality, and safety and welfare. In most cases, multi-year trend data are graphically presented, so communities can measure their progress over time. Producing the Community Profiles raised many challenging technical, political, and practical issues. The issues included defining ""community""; integrating disparate datasets; addressing statistical concerns; and choosing an accessible format. The article highlights these issues and suggests some ""lessons"" that may be useful to others embarking on similar projects."
10.2307_27697878	2009	"This descriptive study examines the extent to which the federal government has achieved social equity in its workforce. In particular, the author addresses the degree to which white women and people of color have been successful in reaching the upper, higher-paying levels of nonpostal federal government jobs. The study shows that, with few exceptions, these groups, despite continued calls for greater equity, remain in lower-level, lower-paying, less prestigious jobs."
10.2307_4624616	2007	"On May 30, 2006 the Supreme Court handed down a 5-4 decision in the case of Garcetti v. Ceballos, announcing that ""when public employees make statements pursuant to their official duties, they are not speaking as citizens for First Amendment purposes, and the Constitution does not insulate their communications from employer discipline."" Previously, the Court had held in Pickering v. Board of Education (1968) that the First Amendment's protection of freedom of speech generally prohibited public employers from firing or disciplining employees for speaking out on matters of ""public concern."" The Pickering decision established a two-part test that first required federal courts to determine whether the employee had spoken out on a matter of public concern and then whether the disruptive impact of the employee's statement justified the disciplinary action. This article argues that the Garcetti decision may deter many public employees from disclosing governmental inefficiency and misconduct and presenting dissenting viewpoints on matters of clear public concern. Consequently, the decision may make it more difficult for the leadership of public agencies to uncover inefficiency and misconduct."
10.2307_976691	1997	"How well equipped are today's public administrators to face the challenges they confront from the involvement of businesses, not-for-profits, other units of government, and even clients in complex patterns of program operations? Not very well, if judged by the extent to which practitioners and scholars have incorporated the network concept and its implications into their own work. Discussions in the field contain little to help practicing managers cope with network settings. In fact, conventional theory may actually be counterproductive when applied inappropriately to network contexts. And yet, these arrays are now consequential and becoming increasingly so. Practitioners need to begin to incorporate the network concept into their administrative efforts. The challenge for scholars is to conduct research that illuminates this neglected aspect of contemporary administration. The author sketches a set of agendas that offer prospects for helping to address this need."
10.2307_977064	1997	"Boards and commissions have become an important part of government. The question is who do these bodies represent? Do they represent the public interest? The preferences of appointing officials? The interests and needs of particular social, economic, or political groups? Or, the ideas and practices of their professional staff? This research discovers that the public interest is generally most important to all kinds of government board and commission members. Other forms of representation vary with the size, composition, compensation, and functions of boards and commissions. The research suggests several potential ways to change the organization of board and commission governance to affect representation."
10.2307_25145623	2008	"This study examines the relationship between public service motivation and antecedents believed to be important determinants of moral commitment. Research conducted during the past decade indicates that public service motivation is a valid construct that is useful for predicting outcomes that are important to public organizations and to society. The sample for the empirical study consists of winners of the Daily Point of Light Award and the President's Community Volunteer Award. Antecedents studied are volunteer experience, religious activity, and parental socialization. Quantitative and qualitative analyses are used to identify key determinants of public sector motivation. Religious activity is positively related to formal and informal volunteering. Interviews strongly support the quantitative findings, especially the importance of religion, but also highlight the role of life-changing events."
10.2307_4096599	2006	"On January 13, 1978, after nearly 30 years of public service, Burtell Jefferson became the first African American to serve as chief of the Metropolitan Police Department of Washington, D.C. This profile describes his personal and professional journey and describes-from the perspective of a cadre of active and retired police chiefs and chief executive officers-the impact ofjeffersons career on the Metropolitan Police Department and policing in America more broadly. Jefferson's story, an exemplary illustration of public sector leadership, has profound implications for contemporary efforts to ensure the equality of employment opportunity. Jefferson s career provides a model of effective leadership that is applicable across organizations and sectors. He not only led his organization well but also encouraged and developed generations of future leaders."
10.2307_977491	2003	"This article argues that the difference between poor countries and rich countries has to do with governance rather than resources. In emphasizing the importance of public administration in explaining economic success and failure, the author examines three general theories of governance (organizational, cultural, and structural-functional) presented in Ferrel Heady's textbook in comparative administration. Political elasticity theory is introduced as a way to reconcile and overcome the weaknesses of these theories and to explain a number of unresolved questions in the literature having to do with decentralization, corruption, democracy, culture, and globalization, using comparative case studies (the Netherlands and Ghana, Singapore and Jamaica, and Japan and Nigeria). The implications of political elasticity theory for foreign aid are suggested at the conclusion, illustrated by a comparison of Spain and Mexico. What ties these case studies together is the heretofore unnoticed and/or unexplained fact that as countries prosper, political power takes on ""rubber-band"" and ""balloon"" characteristics."
10.2307_40469021	2009	"Most scholars would agree that we are in an age of rapid globalization. The phenomenon of ""globalization"" is well documented and thoroughly discussed by many. What is missing among scholarly work is a clear statement as to what needs to be done in terms of public administration in order to meet the challenges of rapid globalization. What should the new public administration for the twenty-first century look like?"
10.2307_4624642	2007	"After 60 years of scholarship on the rule-bound bureaucratic personality, this article turns attention to the unbureaucratic personality. Identified by a willingness to bend rules, the unbureaucratic personality is thought to be influenced by individual and workplace attributes. The individual attributes investigated in this article include nonconformity, risk propensity, and public service commitment, all of which are expected to stimulate the unbureaucratic personality. Workplace attributes include formalization and centralization, which are expected to suppress the unbureaucratic personality, and red tape, which is expected to trigger it. These hypotheses are tested using mail survey data collected from employees of four cities in a midwestern state. The results of ordered probit modeling of the data suggest that nonconformity and risk taking increase the unbureaucratic personality, as do red tape and centralized workplaces. By contrast, the unbureaucratic personality appears to be diminished by public service commitment and workplace formalization. The implications of these results for the normative aspects of rule bending are discussed."
10.2307_977454	2001	"Interoperability is more than ""digital plumbing""-making sure that computers talk so that bits of data flow properly. Fundamentally, interoperability is people talking and sharing information. Sharing information reduces the ""paperwork burden"" on the citizen, streamlines work processes, and enriches the formulation, implementation, and evaluation of policy. Building on prior theory and research, this research has developed empirically derived, practical findings and recommendations to support the development of appropriate interoperable systems."
10.2307_3542519	2005	"We understand civic engagement to mean people participating together for deliberation and collective action within an array of interests, institutions and networks, developing civic identity, and involving people in governance processes."
10.2307_25145620	2008	"The federal government's ""quiet crisis"" of the 1980s has become the ""deafening crisis"" of the early twenty-first century. Virtually every measure of the state of the public service as envisioned by Alexander Hamilton has worsened over the past two decades. This lecture outlines Hamilton's seven characteristics of an energetic federal service and examines recent trends in its decline. Although the federal service still executes an enormous agenda of important missions, it is increasingly frustrated in its work."
10.2307_977057	1997	"The Line Item Veto Act (P. L. 104-130), which took effect on January 1, 1997, could have profound effects on the relationship between Congress and the president in the budget process. Rather than providing constitutional item-veto authority similar to that enjoyed by governors, this version of the item veto is an expansion of the president's authority to rescind appropriated funds, first created by the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974. Under P. L. 104-130, the president's proposed cancellations of discretionary budget authority, new direct spending, and targeted tax benefits will take effect unless specifically disapproved by Congress. As enacted, the line-item veto will have effects that are far less dramatic than most of its supporters or detractors have suggested. It is likely to have little effect on overall spending and deficits. It could increase the president's ability to persuade members of Congress to support his priorities in exchange for a promise not to use this new power to cut out items that these members support. The structure of the Line Item Veto Act may allow the Congress, however, to circumscribe the president's power by changing the way that legislation is packaged or by writing specific language into legislation that restricts its use. Scholars should examine and evaluate these and other effects of P. L. 104-130 because the law sunsets on January 1, 2005, thus forcing a decision concerning whether the president should continue to have this authority and in what form."
10.2307_977452	2001	"Many contemporary mysteries feature bureaucrats struggling with difficult ethical dilemmas. Should they lie? Disobey an order? Use physical force? Break the law in order to catch a criminal? In addition to their entertainment value, mysteries offer untapped opportunities to reflect on the moral conflicts faced by civil servants. In this article, the author analyzes the work of 12 modern mystery writers whose protagonists include police detectives, a medical examiner, a prosecutor, a park ranger, and a fire chief. Several types of bureaucrats are identified including moralists, pragmatists, and rogues. The author then links these types to broader ethical philosophies, such as actutilitarianism, rule-utilitarianism, ethical egoism, and Kant's categorical imperative. He concludes that mysteries can be an effective teaching tool for courses in ethics and public administration."
10.2307_976359	1998	"This research began by asking the question, ""What is the role of the independent political executive in the governance process of one state?"" This article summarizes four case studies of independent political executives in one western state (Wyoming). The research demonstrates that these executives play somewhat different roles from federal political executives because of their numbers and longevity. The case studies also demonstrate that these individuals are instrumental in creating and maintaining place values (Kirlin, 1994). The case studies suggest that dispersed authority may account for some of the responsiveness, innovation, and other distinctive features of state government in the nineties."
10.2307_3110356	2002	"Is the extent of sex-based occupational segregation in U.S. state bureaucracies related to agency policy missions? Drawing on arguments by Lowi (1985), we contend that levels of sex-based occupational segregation in state bureaucracies vary depending on whether an agency's policy mission is distributive, regulatory, or redistributive. We employ data on the distribution of administrative and professional employees by sex in several types of state agencies across all 50 states for 1987-97. Our findings indicate high levels of occupational segregation among administrative cadres in agencies with distributive and regulatory policy commitments; however, professional workforces in these agencies have become less gender segregated over time. We find no evidence of occupational segregation among administrative and professional workforces in redistributive agencies. We argue that researchers need to examine the relationship between glass walls and other kinds of sex-based employment impediments, such as glass ceilings."
10.2307_40468972	2009	"The fall of the Soviet empire and the transition to democracy that has taken place in Central and Eastern Europe (and elsewhere) during the past three decades has focused new attention on both the processes of and the issues involved in, democratic institution building. These experiences have shown that issues of linguistic and ethnic difference are often key elements in such matters. Ukraine, a country of considerable strategic importance, has struggled with both the transition to democracy and the relative roles of the Ukrainian and Russian languages in the task of nation-state building. This article examines the emergence of linguistic conflicts in Ukrainian government and public policy and explores, through a survey of higher education institutions, its impact on the preparation of the next generation of the nations public administrators. The article concludes by explaining why the impact of this politically divisive issue has been more modest than might have been expected."
10.2307_3542613	2004	"This study examines the different attitudes of newly elected officials and senior incumbents on variables that are considered to be the building blocks of the relationship between local elected officials and professional civil service staff: council respect for the city's professional staff; a clear understanding of the roles of council and the staff; and the governing body's commitment towards working as a group and toward consensus. Governing body members who have served for eight or more years show greater respect for staff, have greater role understanding, and value teamwork among their colleagues more than their newly elected counterparts. While there are differences, the attitudes of long-term officials appear to change little while in office. They enter office with the building blocks of their own success. These findings are based on a cross-sectional and modest longitudinal survey research design, supplemented by in-depth interviews."
10.2307_977587	2003	"Under pressure to do more with less, governments across the country have moved from direct service provision to providing services by contract. Proponents argue that contracting can reduce costs and improve flexibility and customer satisfaction. Critics point to a growing number of failed contracts, arguing there are numerous pitfalls associated with contracting. Missing from these debates is a discussion of how governments' managerial capacity can improve contract performance. In this article, we identify specific capacities that governments can use to harness the promise of contracting while avoiding its pitfalls. We present analyses of data on municipal and county government contracting activities that show how governments invest in contract-management capacity in response to several internal and external threats to effective contract performance. Because government investment in contract-management capacity is uneven-that is, some governments invest in less capacity even when circumstances would call for more-our analyses may help to explain why some contract arrangements are more successful than others."
10.2307_3542585	2005	"Accountability is a core concept of public administration, yet disagreement about its meaning is masked by consensus on its importance and desirability. This article proposes a five-part typology of accountability conceptions. Transparency, liability, controllability, responsibility, and responsiveness are defined as distinct dimensions of accountability, providing an improvement on the current state of conceptual fuzziness. The typology provides a vocabulary for the core argument: that conflicting expectations borne of disparate conceptions of accountability undermine organizational effectiveness. This phenomenon-labeled multiple accountabilities disorder-is illustrated with a case study. ICANN, the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, is a nascent organization charged with administering the Domain Name System, the Internet's address directory. In its four-year history, ICANN has been the object of much criticism. Conflicting accountability expectations have been a source of difficulty for ICANN'S leaders as they have steered the organization through its early years."
10.2307_27697854	2009	"Since September 11, emergency management has become a central responsibility of local government managers. Yet isn't there an inherent inconsistency between the concepts of ""management"" and ""emergency""? Management seeks to control and standardize the response to problems by reducing variations, whereas emergencies represent the acute imposition of rare and unique occurrences. Scott Somers, a city council member in Mesa, Arizona, and James H. Svara Arizona State University discuss this apparent contradiction by considering three aspects of emergency management: anticipating the unpredictable, resource planning for emergencies and hazard mitigation, and determining ""acceptable risk."" Each is discussed as an example of how top administrators can help elected officials and constituents understand the big issues that affect a community's future, as well as to highlight how this information can help elected officials set goals and develop broad approaches to resource allocation. Two veteran city managers comment on Somers and Svara's thesis, giving PAR readers a thoughtful exchange on this pressing issue facing local government."
10.2307_3843896	2006	"Intergovernmental management is more than just inter-governmental relationships involving the federal government. Though Professor McGuire agrees that the federal government has become more intrusive and opportunistic since the mid-20th century-resulting in less cooperative intergovernmental relations-he argues that collaborative management is much more prevalent than it is depicted in Dr. Conlan's analysis. A bottom-up view suggests that local and regional activity can be both opportunistic and collaborative, and such a perspective must be considered in any discussion of managing federalism."
10.2307_4624539	2007	"In seeking to explain the antecedents of public service motivation, James Perry focuses on the formative role of sociohistorical context. This study tests Perry's theory and examines the role that organizational factors play in shaping public service motivation, based on responses from a national survey of state government health and human service managers. The findings support the role of sociohistorical context, showing that public service motivation is strongly and positively related to level of education and membership in professional organizations. The results also underscore the significant influence of organizational institutions, indicating that red tape and length of organizational membership are negatively related to public service motivation, whereas hierarchical authority and reform efforts have a positive relationship. Therefore, public organizations have both an opportunity and a responsibility to create an environment that allows employees to feel they are contributing to the public good."
10.2307_3542650	2006	"The past six decades have witnessed acceleration in both the number and variety of major administrative reform statutes enacted by Congress. This increase can be explained partly by the increased involvement of Congress, a parallel decrease in activity and resistance by the presidency, and heightened public distrust toward government. At least part of the variation in the tides or philosophies of reform involves a ""field of dreams"" effect in which the creation of new governmental structure during the 1940s, 1950s, and 1960s generated increased interest in process reforms. However, part of the acceleration and variety of reform appears to be related to the lack of hard evidence of what actually works in improving government performance. Measured by federal employees' perceptions of organizational performance, what matters most is not whether organizations were reformed in the past, but whether organizations need reform in the future and can provide essential resources for achieving their mission."
10.2307_4624693	2007	"The study of crisis and emergency management-or mismanagement-during Hurricane Katrina will continue to proliferate in the near future. This article presents a global and international perspective on Katrina as a case of ""grand failure"" in crisis and emergency management, with lessons and implications for future crisis management. Benefiting from empirical data collected from international interviews, the essay presents a theoretical analysis of emergency governance and crisis management, discusses a detailed global perspective on Katrina crisis management as ""management and leadership crisis,"" offers a number of key lessons learned from Katrina, and draws policy and administrative recommendations for future crisis and emergency management through a theory of ""surprise management"" that is adaptive, collaborative, and citizen engaging and draws on chaos and complexity theories to cope with hyper-uncertainties and unknowns."
10.2307_40469070	2009	"Does globalization foster administrative convergence? Is that the case with public enterprise reform in the United States and the Peoples Republic of China? Few analyses compare public enterprise reform in the two countries because of their vast differences in regulatory approaches, public policy, and government structure. This article contrasts how American and Chinese public enterprises are developed, defined, and managed, along with their emerging control infrastructures This the resulting strengths and weaknesses. While vast differences remain apparent between the two countries, this essay provides insights into why those gaps persist, and may even continue to grow."
10.2307_3542495	2004	"This article presents the first empirical test of Wildavsky's model of self-evaluation by public organizations. We elucidate Wildavsky's arguments and identify six variables that have theoretical effects on self-evaluation. A statistical model that incorporates these variables explains 46 percent of the variation in self-evaluation. The evidence suggests that self-evaluation is positively related to leadership support and employee involvement, and negatively related to the number of organizational sub-units undertaking evaluation at the same time. Refinements to the Wildavsky model are proposed, and conclusions are drawn on the theory and practice of self-evaluation by public organizations."
10.2307_25145573	2008	"Dwight Waldo (1913-2000) is commonly known as a ""heterodox"" critic of the dichotomy between politics and administration. But is this reputation supported by his writings? It seems to be primarily based on The Administrative State (1948) and other early publications, in which he conceptualized politics/administration narrowly as deciding/executing and, indeed, sharply criticized it. Waldo's later publications, by contrast, offer much broader conceptualizations and a more ambivalent, even positive appraisal of the dichotomy. Such conceptualizations are also found in an important unpublished book Waldo worked on during several phases of his career. On the basis of these published and unpublished writings, we should reconsider Waldo's reputation and, pursuing his line of reasoning, reconceptualize the politics-administration dichotomy as a layered construct and reappreciate it as a constitutional doctrine."
10.2307_977537	2001	"In this article, it is argued that while there has been an apparent eclipse in discourse regarding the publicness or public quality of public service, the recent transition toward a market-driven mode of governance has created a serious challenge to such publicness. More specifically, the contemporary businesslike changes in the objectives, structures, functions, norms, and users of public service tend to diminish its publicness in terms of its current trends toward eroding public-private distinction, shrinking socioeconomic role, narrowing composition of service recipients, worsening condition of accountability, and declining level of public trust. Based on the existing studies, empirical findings, and country experiences, this article delineates the basic criteria determining the publicness of public service, uses these criteria to demonstrate how the recent businesslike reforms have led to the erosion of such publicness, and makes recommendations for reviving the quality of publicness in public service."
10.2307_40469032	2009	"The New Public Management movement was only the latest demand that public organizations promote efficiency by adopting business methods. There again followed reactions from those arguing that other values, such as equity, citizen participation, and democracy, are as important as efficiency. This article suggests that an economic rather than business perspective on efficiency may usefully contribute to the scholarly conversation. It also suggests that it is ""efficient"" to identify the public values in play within any given situation."
10.2307_3542563	2004	"This article presents a theory of administrative work as practice. Building on a rich narrative of a mid-level administrator in the Dutch Immigration Office, four core elements of administrative practice are identified: contextuality, acting, knowing, and interacting. Taking cues from practice theory and ethnomethodology, the author argues that the visible aspects of administrative work (decisions, reports, negotiations, standard operating procedures, and-on a higher level of institutional abstraction-structures, legal rules, lines of authority, and accountability) are effectuations, enactments of the hidden, taken-for-granted routines: the almost unthinking actions, tacit knowledge, fleeting interactions, practical judgments, self-evident understandings and background knowledge, shared meanings, and personal feelings that constitute the core of administrative work. Taken together, contextuality, acting, knowing, and interacting make up a unified account of practical judgment in an administrative environment that is characterized by complexity, indeterminacy, and the necessity to act on the situation at hand."
10.2307_977509	2001	"Confirmation politics for judicial appointees is an exhaustively studied phenomenon, but the politics of appointment for independent agencies is less well understood, because nominees are very rarely rejected and the Senate fails even to hold a recorded vote for most appointees. However, alternative evidence of conflict between the president and the Senate is available: the length of time it takes to fill a vacancy on a board or commission. An empirical assessment of FCC vacancies, based on an exponential regression model of vacancy duration, demonstrates that statutory restrictions on the partisanship of the board significantly deteriorate the efficiency of the appointment process. In addition, the appointment of minorities (though not of women) occurs only after unusually drawn-out appointments. A straightforward test of whether divided government leads to extended vacancies turns up negative."
10.2307_3110097	2003	"Crisis management (prevention, preparedness, response, and reconstruction) is a tough task for political and bureaucratic leaders. This article documents the persistent tensions between the expectations and realities of crisis leadership. It explores the popular notion that crises provide key opportunities for reform. The very occurrence of a crisis is then thought to expose the status quo as problematic, making it easier to gain momentum for alternative policies and institutions. We argue that the opportunities for reform in the wake of crisis are smaller than often thought. The prime reason is that the requisites of crisis leadership are at odds with the requirements of effective reform."
10.2307_976688	1997	"Thanks in large part to three nationwide surveys sponsored by the International City/ County Management Association in 1982, 1988, and 1992, we know a great deal about the extent of municipal privatization in the United States. These surveys, however, were not designed to explore the various nuances of municipal privatization, such as the extent of their satisfaction with privatization, why cities choose to privatize services, the extent to which privatization reduces service costs and improves service delivery, how privatization affects employee's compensation packages, how cities monitor the quality and effectiveness of privatized services, and what lessons city officials have learned from their privatization experiences. The authors fill this void in the literature by asking these questions and more of city officials in America's largest cities. Among their many findings, they discovered that while privatization is now an accepted, alternative means of delivering municipal services throughout the United States, it is by no means viewed as a panacea."
10.2307_3109990	1997	"The encouragement of small businesses is an important goal of modern governments. In the United States, a major piece of legislation, the Small Business Act of 1953, sets aside a certain number of federal contracts for businesses ""that are independently owned and operated; are not dominant in their field of operation; and meet a specified size criterion."" This article explores whether small business set-asides raise the cost of contracting, using as a case study the federal procurement of dredging services. No evidence was found to support the hypothesis that set-asides increase costs. In all but one instance, there was no significant difference between the bids submitted for set-asides and the bids submitted on unrestricted solicitations. In the single case in which a statistically significant difference was found (pipeline dredges only), the restricted bids were actually lower than the comparable unrestricted bids. One possible reason that set-asides produced either no change or a lower bid price than unrestricted dredging is that more firms bid on them. On average, 3.6 firms bid on the set-asides while only 3.1 firms bid on the unrestricted solicitations. This study showed that small business set-asides do not lead to higher cost of contracted services as long as the pool of bidders is not reduced."
10.2307_3542542	2004	"Evidence suggests the boundaries between the U.K. government and the voluntary sector are blurring because of an increasing emphasis on partnership between the two. One symptom of this changing relationship-or a contributing cause of it-is the practice of recruiting senior managers from the voluntary sector into government service. The intention is that these managers should play a significant role in formulating and implementing government strategy with regard to the voluntary sector and in other policy areas where voluntary-sector organizations are seen as key players. This article addresses the issues that voluntary-sector leaders face when they move into government-to what extent are they insiders, outsiders, or critical friends, and to whom? It concludes that the madness of the government machine is more than the sum of its parts: people, policy, and process."
10.2307_977445	2001	"The 2000 presidential election exposed serious election-administration deficiencies that affected the presidential election and the confidence of the American people in the way elections are administered. The ensuing controversies also exposed significant issues in judicial-administrative relations. This article examines the factors involved not only in Florida, but also in the nation, and discusses lessons for the future of election administration and for public administration generally."
10.2307_976888	1998	"This article identifies existing gaps of theory and practice in public administration between Western and non-Western nations. By placing national bureaucracies within a global context, the article develops a framework that can be applied to bridge the gaps, improve the cumulation of knowledge in public administration, and enhance the relevance of theory for practitioners. Based on the framework, the article hypothesizes ways in which global pressures such as continuously advancing information technology, the impact of global institutions, and demands for public-sector efficiency influence public bureaucracies. It concludes with guidance for future research and implications for practice."
10.2307_40469017	2009	"The twenty-first century is characterized by rapid change, globalization, hyper-competition, and hyperuncertainty. Traditional models of governance and public administration are no match for the challenges of this chaotic environment. This essay argues for building new administrative capacity in response to these serious governance dilemmas. Offered as a modest prescription, this new administrative capacity is proposed to cope more effectively with an increasingly unknowable world. The article opens with an overview of key issues, then focuses directly on the nature and trends of global public sector changes, and concludes by elaborating on the building of such administrative capacity. The author's proposals are presented from a macro perspective: first, suggestions for revitalizing public service and administration given the current crisis; second, macro strategies for enhancing capacity design; and third, specific reforms for strengthening governance, instrumental and administrative capacities, along with concrete recommendations for public administration."
10.2307_27697908	2009	"The Federal Reserve System struggled to maintain order in U.S. credit markets as rapid declines in home prices led to huge write-downs in the value of mortgage-backed securities held by financial institutions. The Fed could have taken a number of steps??in the mortgage market or through broader regulatory actions??to either preempt or mitigate the impact of this market disruption. Broader regulatory actions??in the mortgage market, of risk taking by financial institutions, or in the form of actions to limit the contagion of crisis??imply fundamental changes at the Fed. The network of actors with a stake in broader regulatory action is powerful and highly resistant to regulatory scrutiny. The statutory mission of the FED??especially its commitment to stable prices??could be jeopardized by a broad and explicit mandate to provide liquidity to a wide range of vulnerable financial institutions."
10.2307_3110116	1999	"What was the solid waste recycling performance of cities during the 1990s? What policies distinguished cities with larger performance gains in recycling participation and diversion? How did the costs of recycling compare to those for solid waste collection and disposal, and what policies characterized cities with more cost-efficient recycling operations? These questions are addressed in a panel study of cities experienced in recycling. The levels of performance achieved suggest that recycling is the singular environmental success story of the decade. Although the costs of recycling programs have increased, many cities were able to increase the efficiency of their recycling efforts to the point that, on average, they compared very favorably with the costs of solid waste collection and disposal. This study describes the management policies and practices that distinguished the higher performing recycling programs."
10.2307_977540	2001	"How do officials of participating local governments assess the value of their involvement in performance-comparison projects, including related costs and benefits? In this article, three prominent projects involving city and county governments are examined from the perspective of the participants themselves, revealing gaps between high expectations and subsequent results, but nevertheless suggesting an array of benefits for participants."
10.2307_4624591	2007	"This article proposes a cyclical theory of public entrepreneurship that is rooted in contextual conditions. The authors use material presented to the Institute of Public Administration of Canada for the annual innovation award, as well as an extensive literature review, to illustrate a new model for public entrepreneurship, arguing that today's public entrepreneurs are teams and their actions are systemic. Public entrepreneurs do not create new artifacts, nor do they design grandiose projects, but they slowly reinvent their organizations and, in so doing, transform the systems that control government effectiveness and efficiency. The authors generalize and contextualize the idea of public entrepreneurship and structure the emergence of entrepreneurs into a cycle theory. The individual entrepreneur dominates when the organization is new or there is a need for novel activities. As the organization matures and the need for efficiency takes over, dominant individual entrepreneurship disappears, and with time, a new systemic entrepreneurship arises to tackle them."
10.2307_25145571	2008	"The current controversy over the politicization of science by the Bush administration is, by definition, a political controversy. As such, it must be addressed by political measures as well as the administrative strategies that Dr. Lambright suggests. The administration's actions go beyond the bounds of ""business as usual"" and reflect the interests of its powerful constituencies, as well as the unease of many citizens with some scientific and technological advances. Scientists need to engage these citizens and take their concerns into account in order to build trust between the scientific community and the public, as well as to impede unscrupulous politicians from distorting scientific information to suit their purposes."
10.2307_41506809	2012	"The Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA) of 1993 and the George W. Bush administration's Program Assessment Rating Tool (PART) established new routines that were intended to foster performance management practices. Using data from two surveys, the authors find that the involvement of agency employees in GPRA processes and PART reviews generally had little direct effect on performance information use once other factors are accounted for. The main exception is that managerial involvement in GPRA processes and PART reviews is associated with the use of performance data to refine measures andgoah. This reflects the limits of government-wide reform efforts that depend on difficult-to-observe bureaucratic behavior. The authors also find that a series of organizational factors??leadership commitment to results, learning routines led by supervisors, the motivational nature of the task, and the ability to link measures to actions??are positive predictors of performance information use."
10.2307_40984139	2010	"American democracy is at a pivotal moment: electoral dysfiinction, low levels of participation divisive politics, and power imbalances dominate governance and impede our ability to resolve critical issues facing the nation. In this environment, the author argues, our ability to be the representative system of government we claim is in question. Using Harold D. Lasswell s 1942 essay ""The Developing Science of Democracy"" as a vehicle for reflection, the author reviews progress and challenges in democratic practice today along four dimensions: information delivery and knowledge building; accurate capturing of citizens' views; conducting democratic conversations; and maintaining balances of power. Among the reforms necessary to address persistent challenges in each of these areas, explored in depth is the institutionalization of citizen voice in governance. Seven elements of an infrastructure to achieve such an institutionalization are reviewed: a mandatory legislative framework; designated physical spaces; specific technological, human, and organizational capacity; a trustworthy media; anda recommitment to civic education."
10.2307_41061179	2011	"During the 1970s and 1980s, a number of states created entities commonly called advisory commissions on intergovernmental relations (ACIRs). Although as many as half the states at one time or another supported an ACIR, only about 10 do so today Relying on face-to-face and telephone interviews, e-mail correspondence, website analysis, and mailed surveys of directors and other staff members of active and terminated ACIRs, this study reports on the organization and structure, staffing and finances, and activities and performance characteristics of the state ACIRs still viable today. The study attempts to identify factors that seem most related to successful performance of these agencies, as well as to the termination of the agencies. In conclusion, it speculates on the continued role of state ACIRs."
10.2307_40984105	2010	"Passage of the Serve America Act in 2009, reauthorizing the nation's national and community service programs, represented an important milestone. It was the first time these programs and its parent government agency, the U. S. Corporation for National and Community Service, were reauthorized by Congress since the early 1990s. While advocates of national and community service have hailed the passage of this bill as evidence that these initiatives work and will play an increasingly important policy role, this level of enthusiasm is not well founded. The role that national and community service will play in public policy in the future is, at best, apt to be a modest one. The authors argue that national and community service will continue to underachieve and fall short of the claims made by advocates until it can gain true bipartisan support, clearly define program goals, and produce rigorous empirical evidence demonstrating the impact of these programs."
10.2307_40802367	2010	"As public service motivation research grows qualitatively and quantitatively, some scholars question its appropriateness for international applications. This essay sets out a strategy of convergence for international research and measurement approaches. Studies that assess commonalities in public service motivation content internationally are analyzed in order to develop a broader conceptual and more operational definition as well as consequently a more universal public service motivation construct. Public service motives, according to this review, are based on self-sacrifice and fall into three categories: instrumental, value-based, and identification. The dimensions of the public service motivation construct are refined along the lines of attraction to public participation, commitment to public values, compassion, and self-sacrifice. Researchers are urged to include all of its dimensions within their empirical studies to advance contemporary public service motivation studies."
10.2307_23017440	2011	"The balance between work and family plays a pivotal but evolving role in human resource policy. Ensuring that human resource policy responds to rapidly changing American family demographics, particularly the recent sharp increase in single unmarried Americans, is a major challenge. Compensation policy long has focused on family-oriented values by promising increased capacity to provide for a family in exchange for higher work performance. Now, employees are voicing concerns about matters such as quality time with family, and, in turn, employers are responding by implementing more benefits to achieve a better work??family balance. Strong counterarguments against human resource goals targeted only at families advocate personal policies that emphasize work??life balance for all employees. How well has personal policy kept pace with the shifting compensation preferences of public employees? Results suggest that implementation policies are keeping pace with employee satisfaction. However, levels of employee satisfaction often differ widely by demographic characteristics."
10.2307_42003028	2013	"Do health and health policy professionals (HHPPs) participate in the formation of agency health regulations? Passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) of 2010 has necessitated the writing of many health-related national and state regulations. This article examines the participation patterns of HHPPs during rulemaking to gain insights that may be transferable to future health-related administrative decision making. The author suggests that the mix of public participants active during rulemaking has implications for health policy outputs. This proposition is tested using data drawn from 39 state health regulations and survey data from more than 380 participants and 23 interviews with agency officials. The author finds that HHPPs participate across the majority of the sample regulations, and when their activity across a rule increases, so does participant satisfaction with regulatory outcomes. More broadly, the results suggest a desire for even greater participation by HHPPs in future health-related rulemaking."
10.2307_23017499	2011	"Despite significant growth in public participation GIS (PPGIS) literature since the 1990s, little engagement by e-government scholars is evident in the extensive scholarly PPGIS debates. To fill this void, recent trends in PPGIS adoption by local governments are analyzed. Three waves of GIS are identified: desktop GIS, web GIS, and the Geospatial Web 2.0 platform. Such technological advancements have progressively eased GIS accessibility from expert users to ordinary citizens, accompanied by considerable growth in adopting PPGIS for traffic and transit, volunteered geographic information, and customer relationship management. However, limited use of PPGIS for higher levels of participation such as decision making is found. Barriers to PPGIS adoption for decision making seem less technological and more institutional."
10.2307_40927106	2010	"Data from approximately 1,000 small, mostly rural municipalities in Illinois, New Hampshire, and Wisconsin address local choices on production and contracting arrangements for a wide range of services. The results suggest that the use of both for-profit contractors and cooperative agreements with other governments correlate negatively with population size. Small municipalities are less likely to use competitive bidding processes, compare between production options, or report that privatization produces savings. Median income, rural geography, and ideology show statistically significant associations with contracting decisions. Respondents generally consider themselves ""satisfied"" with services provided by contract, although satisfaction levels are lower than those associated with self-provision of the same services. Citizen satisfaction associated with services delivered by other governments is lower than those provided by private contractors, suggesting that no trade-off in service quality is directly attributable to for-profit contractors."
10.2307_40984099	2010	"The first Minnowbrook Conference in 1968 was a big success. The ideas and directions that the field of public administration followed later on were very much influenced by the spirit of Minnowbrook I. Since then, it has become a practice for American scholars in the field of public administration to meet every 20 years to discuss the future direction of the field. Thus, we had Minnowbrook II in 1988 and Minnowbrook III in 2008. When the next 20 year-cycle arrives in 2028, what will happen to Minnowbrook IV?"
10.2307_41506799	2012	"Developing greater cooperation between researchers and practitioners is a long-standing concern in social science. Academics and practitioners working together to coproduce research offers a number of potential gains for public administration scholorship, but it also raises some dilemmas. The benefits include bringing local knowledge to bear on the field, making better informed policy, and putting research to better use. However, coproduction of research also involves managing ambiguous loyalties, reconciling different interests, and negotiating competing goals. The authors reflect on their experience of coproducing a research project in the United Kingdom and discuss the challenges that coproducers of research confront. They situate the discussion within a consideration of traditions of public administration scholorship and debates about the role of the academy to understand better the politics of their joint practice. Thinking about the politics of coproduction is timely and enables the authors to become more attuned to the enefits and constraints of this mode of research."
10.2307_41061177	2011	"There is consensus on the need for a successor to the U.S. Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations in Washington, D.C, but no agreement on how this entity should be organized and funded and what it should do. There are now many players, both organizations and individuals, in the intergovernmental field, and they need to be sorted out. A key distinction is that American federalism is both an idea and an interest, and a new ACIR shouldfocus on the former as a neutral, independent body with informational, convener, educational, and dissemination functions. We should encourage a discussion and debate on what the new ACIR should be and how it should be structured in order to bring federalism and intergovernmental relations back to the table in Washington."
10.2307_41433296	2012	"New Public Management (NPM) recently has been compared and contrasted with public governance (PG) to illustrate shifts in conceptions of public administrations and in reform agendas. The authors develop measures to capture the relevance of NPM and PG in textual discourse and investigate the extent to which they have entered the political debate. Content analysis of electoral programs for the 2005 Italian regional elections reveaL ? that even in this legalistic country, considerable attention was paid to both NPM and PG issues. An important explanatory variable in preference for NPM or PG is party ideo fogy, highlighting often-ignored withincountry dynamics. Furthermore, the authors show how a methodological approach adapted from mainly political science and business research can be exploited in the field of public administration."
10.2307_23017493	2011	"The authors examine the track record of applying performance-based budgeting (PBB) across three time periods within a sample of U.S. state governments: (1) throughout the 1990s, (2) in the early 2000s, and (3) during the Great Recession. State-level PBB is analyzed according to four elements: (1) the development of performance measures, (2) its applicability to budgeting and management processes, (3) its utility across the business cycle, and (4) its usefulness for budget players. An analytical framework is devised that highlights the ""publicness"" of American government, draws on the principal??agent model, and considers incentive mechanisms theory. Findings confirm that a good performance measurement system takes time to develop and operate well and that PBB functions more effectively for executive management than legislative purposes. PBB is used more by the states during strong economic times as opposed to during economic downturns. More importantly, PBB is only selectively applied by legislators in most states, whereas top executive policy makers, middle managers, and staff embrace and utilize PBB systems more extensively."
10.2307_41317391	2011	"What should be done to advance the study of public administration? strong argument is advanced by outgoing PAR managing editor Jos C. N. Raadschelders that the field benefits significantly from greater attention to ontology and epistemology. To be sure, empirical, evidence-based research has its place, but its basis and the meaning of findings seldom are questioned. Why? Many public administration scholars seek ""scientificness"" through a disciplinary type of methodology. However, working within an inherently interdisciplinary field, public administration scholars cannot reduce the complex, wicked problems of society and government to mere empirical measurement. The author lays out five critical challenges confronting todays public administration??both its study and research??requiring the fields urgent attention in order to meet the comprehensive and rapidly expanding needs of specialists and generalists, practitioners and academicians, as well as the general public."
10.2307_40984108	2010	"How will cities be governed in 2020? The answer will depend to a significant degree on reducing two ""disconnects"": one between municipal government and its citizenry, and the other between municipal government and its region. Elected, managerial, and intellectual leaders need to strengthen their understanding, capacities, and skills regarding public engagement and regional engagement across jurisdictional boundaries. Enhanced performance of these functions will improve cities ability to address problems and seize opportunities in the decade ahead."
10.2307_40606381	2010	"While a growing body of research argues for increased attention to ethics within public administration, schohrs diverge on how to conceptualize the character of public ethics. Likewise, empirical evidence regarding the role that ethics plays in the quality of service delivery is rare. The author argues that the concept of a public ethics of care is useful for public administration in welfare states. She examines the idea empirically through a large-N analysis of frontline bureaucrats within the Swedish Social Insurance Administration. The analysis develops two general measures of a public ethics of care as well as a public ethics of justice. The author proceeds to show a clear presence of an ethics of care in the Swedish public sector. Further, analysis shows that these two ethics measures are supplementary, not contradictory, and that age is the main individual determinant behind ethics of care, strongly correhting with number of years in office. The conclusion underscores how public ethics of care results from acquired experience in fulfilling care-oriented tasks."
10.2307_40469119	2010	"In 2008, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) celebrated its fiftieth anniversary, and has been embarked on a mission to put astronauts on the moon, possibly by 2020. Is this goal ""back to the future""? Or is it ""the way forward"" as a prelude to a mission to Mars? An advisory panel to President Obama has recommended alternatives to the moon as routes to Mars. At the time of writing, Obama has yet to decide. Of course, NASA has already arrived on Mars with robots, a tribute to the agency's remarkable technical prowess. However, the ultimate challenge would be to send men and women to Mars. Why? That, of course, is the big question. The answer lies in the human heart rather than in the rational mind. NASA's exploration of this unknown frontier has more in common with the expeditions of Columbus and Magellan than the missions of most other federal agencies. Any list of discretionary expenditures would prioritize space exploration as an extreme example of an unnecessary luxury that can be postponed. So why should NASA continue to explore space? That question takes on an acute meaning during a time of intense domestic economic and foreign policy challenges. But imagine: what would be lost to America if NASA did not exist?"
10.2307_41506800	2012	"This article reports on research into the possible interest cost penalties when state governments impose increasingly high debt levels on their citizens. The potential effect of debt levels on borrowing costs is a material one, given the large amounts of state debt outstanding. At the same time that government borrowing is heavy, the demand for government obligations also appears to be strong. The authors examine state debt levels and borrowing costs over a six-year period (2001-2006) and find little evidence of such an effect, despite rapidly growing debt burdens. Those concerned about state debt levels the authors say, must look to sources other than investors for pressure to reduce debt issuance."
10.2307_41061189	2011	"Research on tribal governance in the United States is scarce within modern public administration scholarship. Nonetheless, tribal governance is a pre-Columbian practice that predates the U.S. Constitution and federal law. Drawing from several disciplines, John C. Ronquillo of the University of Georgia demonstrates that interdisciplinary sources offer rich information for present-day public administration research about Native American tribes. Tribal governance literature is definitely not ""missing,"" but instead is moderately ""unassembled"" as a subfield of public administration. Building on what is available, the author suggests several key issues within tribal governance in need of urgent academic attention."
10.2307_41506777	2012	"In April2009, the U.S. government unveiled its blueprint for a national network of high-speed passenger rail (HSR) lines, aimed at reducing traffic congestion, cutting national dependence on foreign oil, and improving rural and urban environments. In implementing such a project, it is essential to identify the factors that might influence decision making and the eventual success of the HSR project, as well as to foresee the obstacles that must be overcome. The authors review, summarize, and analyze the most important HSR projects carried out to date around the globe, focusing on the main concerns of HSR projects: their impact on mobility, the environment, the economy, and urban centers. The authors identify lessons for policy makers and managers who are implementing HSR projects."
10.2307_42003022	2013	"Medicaid's transformation since its inception rivals the biological changes of metamorphosis, and this process is not yet over. Past metamorphoses include the change from a small program with eligibility linked to the states' cash welfare benefits to one with national eligibility standards covering many not receiving cash benefits; from a traditional fee-for-service payment program to one dominated by capitated managed care arrangements; and, under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, to a widely accepted component of a national system for near-universal insurance coverage. An analysis of the forces behind these significant changes suggests that future transformations are likely. Four potential scenarios are presented and assessed."
10.2307_23017459	2011	"Professor Dale R. Herspring argues that civil-military relations should move beyond a preoccupation with civilian control; instead, he says, the focus should be on the degree and nature of conflict within civil-military interactions. This alternative theoretical view adds much to the extant literature and allows future work to concentrate both on a more nuanced account of the effects of civil-military relations and, as Professor Herspring does, on the determinants of a ""healthy"" degree of civil-military conflict. This piece responds to Professor Herspring's alternative view, arguing that future work building on his framework could incorporate much from within public administration."
10.2307_23355452	2013	"This article explores how public corporation leadership copes with a turbulent environment using political, managerial, and individual leadership elements. It is an in-depth case study of Lee Ji-Song, who effectively managed the politically and managerially challenging environment that resulted from the merger of two large public corporations into the Korea Land and Housing Corporation. Lee, an engineer, manager, and chief executive of a major construction company, took advantage of his political, managerial, and individual leadership capital to cope with political challenges from lawmakers and with managerial challenges such as postmerger integration management, organizational stabilization, and financial improvement. The authors suggest that an effective public corporation leader must be a skillful politician and businessperson, as public corporations often operate in an environment in which public and private values interact."
10.2307_41433299	2012	"Emotional labor has become an important topic in the study of organizational behavior, but no research has examined how it is affected in individual motivational bases. Public administration scholars have started to study this concept, but empirical studies are still in their infancy. Focusing on aparticuhr type of motivational base ?? public service motivation (PSM), this article assesses how PSM and its three dimensions (attraction to policy making, commitment to public interest, and compassion) affect two common emotional Ubor activities (surface acting and deep acting). Using data from a survey of certified public management students, the results show that PSM is negatively associated with surface acting and positively associated with deep acting. Among the PSM dimensions, attraction to policy making is positively associated with surface acting; compassion is negatively associated with surface acting and positively associated with deep acting; and commitment to public interest is not associated with surface acting or deep acting."
10.2307_40802234	2010	"The most important administrative aspect of the George W. Bush presidency was not its formal management reform agenda, but its attempt to extend the politicized presidency. Efforts to assert tighter political control of the federal bureaucracy, revived during the Ronald Reagan administration, were pursued to an extreme under Bush. Loyalty triumphed over competence in selection, and political goals displaced rationality in decision making However, the strategy ofpoliticization undermined the Bush administrations own policy goals as well as its broader agenda to restore the strength of the institutional presidency. This apparent failure of strategy signals the urgent necessity for a fundamental reconsideration of the politicized presidency."
10.2307_41317416	2011	"One of the great themes of the Federalist Papers is that good government is dependent on good administration. In Federalist No. 27, Publius underscores two important themes. First, he argues that in order to preserve citizen confidence in government, there must be competent administration, and second, he maintains the need for a strong national government to safeguard the republican principles embedded within the Constitution. Publius's contribution to democratic theory and American republicanism proves as enlightening today as it was when he first published this essay in 1787, and it continues to provide important lessons for public administration and the democratic governance process."
10.2307_41061154	2011	"Existing research on career motivations tends to focus either on the difference between private and public organizations or on the difference between nonprofit and for-profit firms. Although commonalities exist, the literature suggests that there also are many differences in what motivates public and nonprofit employees. Employing data from the National Administrative Studies Project III, this research examines how seven motivational aspects correlate with the choice between public and nonprofit employment. The authors find that managers who value advancement opportunities, a pension and retirement plan, and the ability to serve the public in their jobs are more likely to accept a job in the public sector, whereas managers who value family-friendly policies and increased responsibility are more likely to accept a position in the nonprofit sector. Participation in volunteering is positively associated with nonprofit employment. The authors suggest a possible link between volunteering and the unique nonprofit motivation that is differentiated from public service motivation."
10.2307_40606377	2010	"What influences the degree to which city councils support reinventing government (REGO)? Controlling for environmental factors that are likely to shape council policy adoption as well as the tenure of the chief administrator, the findings of this study underscore that the type of representation system is most consistently rehted to opposition to REGO. In addition, the economic health of the city and the tenure of the chief administrator are positively associated with council support. Overall, institutional factors affect council policy adoption more than either environmental factors or an administrator's seniority, at least in this policy area."
10.2307_41317428	2011	"Federalist No. 71 contains a strong of duration in office as a source of ""cool and sedate reflection"" by the executive. According to Alexander Hamilton's argument, duration in office is essential for the vigiknt autonomy needed to faithfully execute the laws. The author examines this argument within the context of government regulation, using the recent financial crisis and consumer safety as examples of the limits of stability and autonomy for creating vigilant autonomy."
10.2307_40606402	2010	"According to recent ""black box"" models of public management, managerial capacity is a critical component for achieving service delivery improvement. In particular, black box models assume that the impact of management systems is maximized through integration with effective leadership. This assumption is tested by analyzing the effects of managerial capacity and organizational leadership on the performance of English local governments, while controlling for a range of other variables, including organizational size, resources, external constraints, and past performance. Empirical results show that capacity possesses a positive statistical association with local government performance and that leadership can enhance the impact of effective management systems."
10.2307_41506780	2012	"This article investigates the factors that determine the configuration of budget stabilization funds, also known as rainy day funds, along their two most important dimensions: deposit and withdrawal requirements. These funds are created to accumulate savings in order to reduce the impact of adverse fiscal conditions during downturns. The effectiveness of such funds depends greatly on their institutional structure, and yet most states choose configurations that compromise their efficacy. Using multinomial discrete techniques, and introducing the ordered nature of the requirements in the analysis, the results of this study indicate that political and institutional factors such as the size of the house of the legislature and some strict institutions are associated with weak budget stabilization funds, while economic factors such as the volatility of state tax revenues are associated with stricter funds."
10.2307_40606376	2010	"Personal interactions between clients and street-level bureaucrats are significant in explaining why street-level bureaucrats behave as they do. Not all bureaucracies that apply program rules to individual however, engage faceto-face with their clientele. As more intake procedures are automated, such ""one-on-one"" encounters decrease. The author generates and tests hypotheses about frontline bureaucratic decision making in the Social Security Disability program, by applying bounded rationality theory. The findings show that eligibility decisions by street-level bureaucrats are affected by their adherence to subsets of agency goals and perceptions of others in the governance system. How quickly they make decisions aho has an impact. There is no evidence that the way in which bureaucrats evaluate clients exphins their decisions when they lack face-to-face contact."
10.2307_41688032	2012	"Social equity is rooted in the idea that each person is equal and has inalienable rights. Because of America's unique blend of social, religious, economic, and political characteristics, we value this concept despite, or perhaps because of the simultaneous tensions of a capitalist economy, which requires inequality, set within a democratic constitutional system, which assumes equality. The impossibility of simultaneously achieving inequality and equality produces episodic ""corrections."" This was the case in the tumultuous 1960s, a period when the usually tame notion of equity gave rise to heated debate and resulted in calk for social change. Now, tumult in the form of economic inequality, unemployment, and globalization is a harbinger of renewed interest. This article explains the roots of the concept, its contemporary understandings, and its relevance to emerging issues."
10.2307_23355469	2013	"This article examines influences on public servant perceptions of ethical climate in the public sector. The array of beneficial outcomes produced by perceptions of a positive ethical climate, the existence of government programs aimed at improving ethical climate, and implications for government accountability and trustworthiness all argue for a better understanding of the sources of these perceptions. Empirical analyses of survey responses from employees of the U.S. federal executive branch show that individuals in leadership positions perceive the ethical climate more positively. Conversely, work tenure tends to worsen perceived ethical climate, although supervisory status attenuates this negative effect. Ethics training, interaction with ethics officials, and perceived knowledge about ethics topics consistently influence perceptions of ethical climate and advice-seeking behavior in a positive way. A set of results related to advice-seeking behavior serves to reinforce the important role of ethics officials."
10.2307_40984101	2010	"This article argues that sustainability should define the conceptual focus for the field of public administration in the coming decade. Sustainability involves three systems: environmental, economic, and political/social systems. The challenge of governance, and thus of public administration, is to sustain each of these systems on its own while maintaining an appropriate balance among them. The article defines the sustainability concept, and its environmental component in particular, in ways that are relevant to public administration; assesses the validity of the concept in terms of the interrelationships and interdependencies among the three systems; and suggests the implications for the field. By integrating knowledge and study of the environmental system with the traditional competence in the political/social and economic systems that is expected in the field, public administrators may achieve a more theoretically complete and empirically valid foundation for education, research, and practice."
10.2307_41433304	2012	"Although research-extensive universities in the United States produce simihr outcomes ?? research y teaching, and service ?? they vary substantially in terms of the publicness of their environments. In this article, the authors adopt a public values framework to examine how regulative, normative! associative, and cultural cognitive components affect realized public outcomes by faculty. Using survey data from a random sample of faculty scientists in six fields of science and engineering at Carnegie Research I universities, findings show that organizational and individual public values components are associated predictably with different realized individual public outcomes. For example, individual support from federal resources and affiliation with a federal lab (associative) are refaed to increased research outcomes, while tuition and fee leveh (regulative) explain teaching outcomes, and perceived level of influence in the workplace (cultural cognitive) explains teaching and service outcomes."
10.2307_40802366	2010	"As public service motivation research gains momentum, important questions emerge regarding its origins and consequences that are not addressed by existing research. The authors identify some fundamental public service motivation assumptions, including critical gaps in our current understanding of its basic tenets. The authors then discuss specific research studies that, by virtue of their findings and designs, may fill in and inform such apparent gaps. Their aim is to chart new concrete directions for scholarship that complements and advances existing public service motivation research."
10.2307_23355473	2013	"Levels of citizen estrangement from government in the United States have risen rather consistently since the late 1960s and have reached all-time highs in recent years. Evidence is accumulating in political science research to suggest that public administrative theory may have contributed to this trend since the Progressive Era in the early 1900s. The authors develop this thesis by arguing that administrative theory in the United States has persistently portrayed public managers as ""bridge builders"" who link an expertise-challenged citizenry to government in ways that emphasize bureaucratic over democratic administration. Moreover, despite claims of yet another ""new"" paradigmatic shift for the field, collaborative governance scholarship to date exhibits similar tendencies. To support this argument, the authors assess the common citizen-marginalizing tendencies of three sets of administrative reforms in American public administration: the progressive, associationalist, and polycentric heritages. They offer counterarguments to this thesis and call for critical self-reflection by the field and a more empirically robust research agenda on this topic."
10.2307_40606379	2010	"Like most public managers nowadays, local emergency managers operate within complex, uncertain environments. Rapid changes in the scope and severity of the issues increase the extent of intergovernmental collaboration necessary to address such challenges. Using a large data set of county emergency management agency directors, variations in intergovernmental collaboration reflect influences from problem severity, managerial capacity, and structural factors. The results demonstrate that public managers who perceive problems as severe, possess specific managerial skills, lead high-capacity organizations, and operate in less complex agency structures collaborate more often and more effectively across governmental boundaries."
10.2307_41317388	2011	"Japan is the only country to suffer twice from the terrible consequences of atomic bombs. Hiroshima and Nagasaki are renowned internationally for experiencing the first twin devastating nuclear attacks in history. Unfortunately, Japan has witnessed several other serious nuclear-related disasters in recent years. The much publicized Fukushima disaster in 2011 is one of them. How could such a serious accident occur in a modern, highly sensitive, nuclear-conscious country? The answer to that central question is complex, involving not only political and administrative issues but also technical and human dimensions. In retrospect, both government officials and private industry were far too lax with the operation and development of nuclear policies and facilities. The Fukushima debacle was the result of a lack of rigorous management and control of nuclear issues by both public authorities and private industry."
10.2307_23017487	2011	"This article reviews the history of executive budgeting in the United States a century after President William Howard Taft's Economy and Efficiency Commission proposed an executive budget. This history, the authors argue, does not suggest that giving more budget power to the president will improve budget outcomes. Instead, what is needed is more cooperation between the branches of government and a better-educated public??goals that were shared by budget reformers when the Taft report was published."
10.2307_41317411	2011	"Federalist No. 1 sets the basic framework for interpreting the U.S. Constitution. It contains an implied definition of ""good government"" that occupied the founders as they built a stronger national government. This essay exphins the conflict embedded in the debate between the two theories of good government offered by Alexander Hamilton and Thomas Jefferson and asks how the competing definitions might be reconciled with recent experience."
10.2307_40927105	2010	"Eminent domain is an urgent problem facing local government administrators and scholars throughout the United States. However, the literature is sparse regarding how local leaders make decisions on this hot-button issue. A 2006 Government Accountability Office report noted a lack of data about local governments' use of their eminent domain authority. A survey of county managers in North Carolina was conducted to redress this apparent knowledge gap. Although the findings are primarily generalizable only to other Dillons rule states, such data demonstrate that eminent domain applies more often for ""narrow"" (public use) purposes, such as water and sewer systems, than for ""broad"" (public good) purposes, such as economic development. Current and future property considerations also influence eminent domain decisions. [A] law that takes property from A, and gives it to B: It is against all reason and justice, for a people to entrust a legislature with such powers; and, therefore, it cannot be presumed that they have done it."
10.2307_40927103	2010	"Changes during the last decade have significantly altered the nature of election administration and driven up its costs. Interviews with practitioner representatives from the elections community reveal a number of issues that continue to influence this field. Expense data from two counties illustrate how policy changes affect election costs. Scheduled ending of federal funding threatens a ""perfect storm"" in election finance that may undermine hard-won advances from 2000 to 2010. Possible cost reduction measures as well as critical challenges facing election administration are forecast for 2010 and the years ahead."
10.2307_40927109	2010	"India's 2005 Right to Information Act (RTIA) is among dozens of national laws recently adopted similar to the U.S. Freedom of Information Act. Drawing on several large studies examining the acts implementation, the author finds that Indian citizens filed about 2 million requests for information under the RTIA during its first two and half years. However, use of the law was constrained by uneven public awareness, poor public planning, and bureaucratic indifference or outright hostility. Requirements for proactive disclosure of information are often ignored. The necessary mechanisms for enforcing the new law are also strained by a growing number of complaints and appeals. Nonetheless, RTIA advocates demonstrate its transformative potential and continue to press energetically for more effective implementation. Public authorities and civil society organizations have developed a number of practical innovations that may be useful for other developing countries to adopt when considering similar laws."
10.2307_42002954	2013	"Recent conflicts over public sector defined benefit pension funding have inspired polarized debates about the need for reform, including the utility of replacing pensions with defined contribution accounts, which are popular throughout the private sector. Between 1996 and 2011, 15 American states enacted legislation to implement either mandatory or optional defined contribution accounts for certain public employees. What drove this process? This article investigates the role of political, budgetary, and contagion influences on the diffusion of defined contribution accounts for general state employees. Empirical results suggest that enactments were influenced by Republican legislative, but not executive, partisanship. Gains in state indebtedness also increased the likelihood of enactment independent of political and other factors. There is no evidence of policy learning based on neighboring state activity and no influence from two measures of organized labor power. Both quantitative and qualitative robustness checks largely reinforce these findings."
10.2307_40802232	2010	"Does the public administration research from the late 1970s and 1980s on managing decline contain useful lessons for todays Great Recession? Do these studies serve our current research needs? Why has decline continued to be a major focus of research in generic management, but not in public administration? The answers to these questions give some clues as to a possible new, revitalized research agenda for our field. Whereas public administration ofien viewed organizational decline as a self-contained set of problems requiring remedial action, generic management and sociology research on decline tended to view the topic as part of organizational phases and life cycles, linking decline to growth, stability, and change. Viewing decline as part of the organizational life cycle encourages researchers to take a longer view of organizations and their management, and thus its orientation is more strategic than reactive. Three areas of decline studies are identified as relevant irrespective of sector: (1) implications of decline for human resources management, (2) effects of decline on organization structure and design, (3) the relation of strategy and decline."
10.2307_42003135	2013	"Interorganizational mobility can make a positive contribution both organizationally and government-wide. Using data from the U.S. Federal Employee Viewpoint Survey, this article seeks to provide a better empirical understanding of the determinants of interorganizational mobility within the U.S. federal government. A specific analytical framework is used y as the intention to take another job within the federal government is nested in the intention to leave the current organization. The results highlight that gender, minority status, length of service, and promotion are determinants of interorganizational mobility within the U.S. federal government."
10.2307_42003125	2013	"Scholars and practitioners have long debated what role the public should play in public management. When members of the public interact with the administrative side of government, should they be treated as customers, as citizens, or in some other manner? This article takes as its premise that members of the public assume three principal roles reUtive to public management: as customers, as partners, and as citizens. After placing these roles in the context of the history of public administration, the article draws from recent research to recommend guidelines for how public managers can work effectively with the public in these several capacities."
10.2307_41687987	2012	"Public managers in local integrated services collaboratives find that commitment to local partnership goals sometimes requires evading policy directives that are imposed by legishtion or bureaucratic superiors. Using data that reveal what is often concealed, the author finds that these workarounds can be defined and identified and that they often revolve around central features of policy rather than marginal detaih. Workarounds emerge in the space created by certain managerial strategies and dispositions: treating directives as starting points for negotiation, using performance to justify discretion and manage risk, establishing local collaborative goals as an alternative locus of accountability, and distinguishing front-door services from back-door accounting. By aggregating data from clusters of workaround stories, researchers and practitioners can (1) identify policy flaws in need of repair, (2) illuminate tensions in the integrated service ideal, and (3) inform the enduring normative debate over administrative discretion and public accountability."
10.2307_41061152	2011	"What are the apparent research and methodological trends in PAR's content over the past decade? From the perspective of the journal's 70-year history, with its aim to ""mesh"" practitioner and academic knowledge creation, topical coverage since 2000 reflects striking continuity, emphasizing many of the ""bread and butter"" administrative issues such as planning, human resources, budgeting, and public management. A marked increase in coverage is apparent in the application of more sophisticated quantitative statistical methodology, as well as in the number of female authors, while the number of practitioner authors declined sharply. Throughout the first turbulent decade of the twenty-first century, three intellectual themes stood out: evaluations of New Public Management, connections between practitioners and academicians, and responsiveness to immediate social, economic, and political challenges. Given the constant demand for usable knowledge, scholars seem to have marginalized attention to the historical context and epistemologicalfoundations of the study. The central challenge in the years ahead will be to effectively use research methods in response to the big questions of government and society that defy measurement."
10.2307_41688035	2012	"In his classic work H. George Frederickson offers a robust call to value anew the spint of public administration. This was offered not as an abstract treatise but as a reaction to the evolution of the practice of public administration that included institutions and approaches that stretched previous understanding of the field. Much about the constitution of the ""spint of public administration"" is left abstract by Frederickson. It is something of a placeholder for the norms, values, and principles that are threatened by the ascendance of ""governance."" In this article, the threat of an undermined spint of administration in a governance era is considered with an attempt at greater specificity and concreteness than previous discussions.?To the end of opening a more empirical exphration of the spirit??governance nexus, this article moves away from an either/or position and attempts to distill the highest risks ofdetenoration of spint in the provision of public goods."
10.2307_23017488	2011	"The U.S. federal budgeting system faces severe challenges in coming years. Deficits are being recorded at levels and with regularity not seen in prior periods. This article suggests that such problems reflect the uncomfortable mix of logics informing budgetary and political institutions??that is, the rules of the game. Logics make it appropriate to expect that government be limited in its tax demands but simultaneously responsive in providing expensive services necessary for the achievement of the American dream, for example. Crisis is needed to allow the emergence of institutional forms that mediate between these conflicting logics."
10.2307_41317426	2011	"Federalist No. 70 argues that presidents will rise above factions through their power to assemble a government composed of highly motivated, accountable officers. The author confronts this assumption through a detailed examination of the heavy use of contractors in today's administrative state. She documents the challenges and dangers associated with the role of contractors to execute the laws through broad mandates. An appendix to Federalist No. 70 offers a series of tweets that would introduce needed reforms in the hidden workforce of contractors."
10.2307_40606406	2010	"The authors review the U.S. Army's field manual on counterinsurgency, consider the doctrine and tactics that it espouses, and survey its current critics. They present specific examples of its application and conclude that while counterinsurgency does achieve results, the U.S. government lacks a strategic doctrinal framework for implementing counterinsurgency elsewhere. This shortcoming urgently needs to be addressed in a meaningful way by political leaders."
10.2307_41506806	2012	"This article contributes to the emerging literature on transparency by developing and empirically testing a theoretical framework that exphins the determinants of local government Web site transparency. It aims to answer the following central question: What institutional factors determine the different dimensions of government transparency? The framework distinguishes three dimensions of transparency??decision making transparency, policy information transparency, and policy outcome transparency??and hypothesizes three explanations for each: organizational capacity, political influence, and group influence on government. Results indicate that each dimension of transparency is associated with diff??rent factors. Decision-making transparency is associated with political influence; when left-wing parties are strong in the heal council, localgovernment tends to be more transparent. Policy information transparency is associated with media attention and external group pressure, and policy outcome transparency is associated with both external group pressure and the organizational capacity. The authors discuss the implications for policy and administration."
10.2307_40802371	2010	"What is the effect of contractors' nonprofit andfor-profit ownership on the scope and nature of performance measurement used by government agencies? Quantitative and qualitative data were generated through semistructured interviews administered to a sample of state and local public agencies and private contractors across five jurisdictions. The findings of this study suggest that monitoring officers working with nonprofit rather than for-profit contractors are more likely to rely on qualitative performance data and examine equitable access to services, contractors' reputation, and compliance with industry rules and regulations. Although organizational ownership may not be well understood by practitioners, performance appears to be conceptualized differently across sectors. The author calls for a better understanding of the impact of the identified differences in performance measurement on the effectiveness of contract monitoring."
10.2307_41317379	2011	"Intensified globalizanon, especially the necessity to learn more about how administrative reforms work effectively in different cultural contexts, requires public administration research to embrace comparative perspectives. How well is the field advancing in that direction? This article presents the results of a content analysis of 151 comparative public administration articles from 2000 to 2009. Results indicate that comparative research is building on theory and empirical research, making use of purposive samples, and using a mix of causal, descriptive, and exploratory methodologies. Subject matter varies widely, but most research focuses on European, Asian, and North Amencan countries. Comparative research is primarily qualitative, making extensive use of existing data. The authors recommend enhanced application of mixed methods, increased use of culture as a key concept, and integration of a broad range of social sciences to encourage more students, practitioners, and scholors to think and work comparatively. Three senior comparative scholors respond, sparking a fascinating and insightful dialogue on this seminal topic in public administration."
10.2307_40802376	2010	"Based on the Asia Barometer Survey of 2003, 2004, and 2006, government performance, citizen empowerment, and citizen satisfaction with self-expression values are associated with public trust in government in Japan and South Korea. This study finds, first, that government performance on the economy, controlling political corruption, the quality of public services, crime, and attention to citizen input are significantly associated with broad public trust in government in both Japan and South Korea. Likewise, citizens' satisfaction with their right to gather and demonstrate and to criticize the government is closely connected to trust in central and local governments in Japan. In South Korea, citizens satisfaction with their right to gather and demonstrate is intimately linked to trust in local government. Implications for government leadership to enhance performance, transparency, citizen participation, and public trust in government are analyzed and elaborated upon in this insightful study."
10.2307_40469105	2010	"Guerrilla government is Rosemary O'Leary's term for the actions of career public servants who work against the wishes??either implicitly or explicitly communicated??of their superiors. This form of dissent is usually carried out by those who are dissatisfied with the actions of public organizations, programs, or people, but typically, for strategic reasons, choose not to go public with their concerns in whole or in part. Rather than acting openly, guerrillas often move clandestinely behind the scenes, salmon swimming against the current of power. Guerrillas run the spectrum from anti-establishment liberals to fundamentalist conservatives, from constructive contributors to deviant destroyers. Three public managers with significant experience comment on O'Leary's thesis that guerrilla government is about the power of career bureaucrats; the tensions between career bureaucrats and political appointees; organization culture; and what it means to act responsibly, ethically, and with integrity as a public servant. Karl Sleight, former director of the New York State Ethics Commission; David Warm, executive director of the Mid-America Regional Council of Greater Kansas City; and Ralph R, Bauer, former deputy regional administrator of the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency in the Seattle and Chicago regions, present unique perspectives on the ""guerrilla"" influence on policy and management, as well as the challenges posed by this ever-present public management phenomenon."
10.2307_23017442	2011	"Why do U.S. federal government employees choose to leave the federal service? By focusing on turnover intentions, this article develops propositions about why employees anticipate leaving their jobs along three dimensions: (1) demographic factors, (2) workplace satisfaction factors, and (3) organizational/relational factors. Two distinct measures of turnover intention are advanced that reflect those who intend to leave their agency for another position within the federal government and those who intend to leave the federal government for an outside position. The 2006 Federal Human Capital Survey is used to test the impacts of three clusters of independent variables on these measures of turnover intention. The findings suggest that overall job satisfaction and age affect turnover consistently. Practical recommendations are outlined for public managers seeking to boost employee retention."
10.2307_42003127	2013	"Passage of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) has served to refocus attention on the complexity of health care delivery in the United States, with particular attention to concepts of quality, access, and outcomes. This article argues that our understanding of the ACA must be informed by an examination of policy implementation in health care, including the core public function of emergency medical services (EMS). Key concepts of implementation in frontline service??notably, rule abidance and deviation??are examined from the perspective of street-level EMS workers. Results indicate that the intersection of rules, patient needs, and professional culture creates instances of both rule abidance and deviation, both of which contribute substantively to concepts of quality in a health care setting."
10.2307_42003006	2013	"This article explores how work motivations differ between administrative and political elites, based on 94 qualitative interviews conducted in the Netherlands, European Union, and United States. Both elite groups are primarily motivated in their initial choice of public service by wanting to contribute to, serve, or improve society; job content, career opportunities, political ideals, and personal background are also important motivators. Once in public service, serving society remains important, but politicians differ from public managers in that they want to have a big impact and bring about actual societal change, and they consider themselves best equipped to do so, whereas the latter value intellectually stimulating work more than anything else. Motivational categories for both groups are relatively stable across institutional settings. Theorizing on the results, the author offers seven propositions for future research. This article contributes to the research on motivation in the public domain by using qualitative methodology and including politicians."
10.2307_23017444	2011	"Randi Weingarten is the president of the most vocal and influential teachers' union, the American Federation of Teachers. Since rising through the ranks to AFT president in just two years, Weingarten is now a major, if not the most prominent, nongovernmental player in national education policy. She has earned deep respect from many educational policy actors. Likewise, Weingarten elicits withering criticism from others. This fascinating profile explains why, in such a brief period, she has proved to be a fierce, fearless, and effective leader under extraordinarily difficult circumstances. Her experience offers invaluable lessons applicable for others working in similarly intense policy arenas."
10.2307_41317412	2011	"Federalist Nos. 6 and 7 address the problems of disunion that led the founders to imagine a stronger national government, arguing that the states were and would continue to be a source of unyielding conflict without national supremacy. This essay asks how the states have adjusted to the Constitution under the Tenth Amendment and posits that the states are a hidden source of energy toward good government in their own right."
10.2307_23355478	2013	"Public??private partnerships (PPPs) have become a prominent feature of contemporary public policy. Although research shows variation in the contractual configuration of partnerships, there is little evidence of how these shape service and workforce organization. Through comparative ethnographic research on two PPP health care providers in the English National Health Service, this article develops the idea that PPPs exhibit ""tight"" and ""loose"" arrangements that relate to ""downstream"" service and workforce management. It induces four empirically grounded mediating factors to describe this relationship. The first relates to the ""dependence"" between partners in terms of financing, strategy, and resource sharing; the second to the ""strategic orientation"" of leaders; the third to the composition of the ""professional workforce""; and the fourth to the ""management approach"" to service and workforce organization. The article contributes to the research literature by exploring the contingencies in how PPPs are operationalized on the ground."
10.2307_42002946	2013	"This article contributes to the growing body of literature on government transparency by developing a model for studying the construction of transparency in interactions between governments and stakeholders. Building on theories about complex decision making, a heuristic model is developed that consists of a strategic, a cognitive, and an institutional perspective. To test the model's value, it is applied to two empirical cases: Dutch schools and the Council of the European Union. Applying the model to the school case provides insights into the connection between the introduction of transparency and the transformation in arrangements for safeguarding school quality. The case of the Council of the European Union highlights the role of transparency in the transformation of the council from a supranational to an intergovernmental body. The article concludes that the heuristic model, together with in-depth, longitudinal case studies, helps us understand government transparency in relation to broader transformations in the public sector."
10.2307_23017471	2011	"Urban regeneration companies (URCs) are public-private entities appearing across Europe. They are created specifically to manage and implement more effectively urban regeneration projects. Core ideas behind the establishment of these newly emerging partnerships aim to tackle the challenging process of restructuring these organizations so as to function at arm's length from political oversight. However, contemporary literature on governance suggests that organizational form may be less a factor than managerial capability. Using survey data obtained from individuals who are heavily involved in Dutch urban regeneration partnerships, this article points out why twin URC organizational characteristics, i.e., functioning at arm's length from politics plus its tight organizational format, are not significant to their effective performance. Instead, use of multiple management strategies is ultimately more relevant to their effective performance."
10.2307_40606400	2010	"Today, more regulatory provisions are in place for protecting low-income minority populations who shoulder a disproportionate amount of environmental risk. Recognized as communities of ""environmental justice,"" industrial facilities located within these areas bear greater legal liabilities for and societal scrutiny of their environmental impacts. The authors offer compelling evidence that, in an effort to avoid regulatory and societal ckims that they are disproportionately harming minority and ethnic popuhtions, businesses operating inside environmental justice communities tend to adopt an environmental management system (EMS). The article probes whether industries actually improve the environment as a consequence of EMS adoption or whether such systems are simply used to avoid greater governmental scrutiny without necessarily reducing overall environmental risks."
10.2307_41061159	2011	"Public administration is an interdisciplinary field, building on a variety of disciplinary approaches and values. But how well does the field of public administration reflect those values and processes? In contrast to previous arguments regarding the degree to which the field does or should incorporate values and lessons from other academic disciplines, this study provides a systematic assessment of the field's reliance on research and theory from the fields of law, management, and political science. An analysis of journal citations across these fields suggests that research in public administration is largely isolated from the three disciplines that are commonly believed to form its foundation."
10.2307_40927107	2010	"What is the current state of research on business improvement districts (BIDs)? What is an appropriate framework for analysis? What are key questions for advancing future BID research? BIDs can be understood best within a network governance framework. The research shows, first, a blurring of the line between the public and private spheres as a result ofBIDs; second, BIDs are increasingly important actors in urban governance; third, BIDs engage in collaborative, conflictual, and co-optative relations with local and state governments; and fourth, difficult accountability and management problems are created by their interdependent relationships with local governments. Future research needs to focus on understanding the role ofBIDs in urban governance and assessing their impacts on metropolitan areas, as well as their inherently complicated public accountability and management challenges."
10.2307_41688045	2012	"Public management by numbers has experienced an international policy boom in recent decades, and big claims have been made about its performance-enhancing effects. But it is hard to assess such claims systematically, even though we can find dramatic anecdotes of cases in which management by numbers seems to have had performance-weakening as well as performance-enhancing effects. In an attempt to build on studies that have gone beyond critiquing the statistical validity and reliability of performance numbers for public services, this article develops two hypotheses about performance enhancement, arguing that (1) theperformance-enhancing (or -obstructing) effects of management by numbers will vary according to whether the numbers are used for the purposes of targets, rankings, or ""intelligence,"" and (2) the performance-enhancing (or -obstructing) effects of those three applications will vary according to the culture in which they operate, working differently in hierarchist, egalitarian, individualist, and fatalist settings."
10.2307_23017441	2011	"Research repeatedly highlights the gap between male and female earnings across the public and private sectors. The authors address an overlooked manifestation of pay discrimination against women in the labor market. Using a survey of 384 public sector chief procurement officers, they analyze the indirect effects of gender on women's pay through the intervening variable of authority. Gender affects the amount of authority that is delegated to an employee, which, in turn, affects the variance in pay between men and women. Results reveal that gender plays a hidden role in influencing compensation levels by shifting the chain of authority given to executives as they build a career portfolio. The conclusion underscores why gender pay disparities should account for both the indirect and the direct effects of gender on pay."
10.2307_23355468	2013	"Studies of representative bureaucracy argue that public administrators hold attitudes that are generally representative of the public and will implement policy in accordance with those attitudes. However, studies of representative bureaucracy generally have not considered the partisanship of local administrators. Many local election officials affiliate with a political party, and there is concern that partisan officials will manipulate election procedures to help their party. The authors analyze a survey of local election officials about their attitudes toward provisional voting. Findings show that Democratic local election officials have significantly more positive attitudes toward provisional voting programs in highly Democratic jurisdictions and significantly less positive attitudes in highly Republican jurisdictions. No such relationship occurs for Republican administrators. In addition, positive attitudes toward provisional voting are associated with more provisional votes being cast and counted in the 2004 presidential election. This work questions whether representative bureaucracy??when it concerns partisanship??is always a desirable outcome."
10.2307_41433303	2012	"Scholars of public administration in the United States traditionally view the 1920s as a decade when the administrative orthodoxy, emphasizing efficiency and organizational structure, dominated the field. This viewpoint recently has been challenged by arguments that the social justice?? oriented views of women progressives and the philosophy of pragmatism aho influenced public adminutration. However, no one has examined how women public administrators implemented exceptions to the prevailing, masculine viewpoints of administrative objectivity and the strict dichotomy between politics and administration dunngthe 1920s. Using Mary Anderson (1872-1964), the bngtime director of the U.S.Department of Labors Womens Bureau, as a case study, this article examines how her experiences as a woman worker and labor organizer influenced her advocacy of an alternative view of public administration, and how, from 1920 through 1930, she established the Womens Bureau within the prevailing orthodoxy yet aho made the government agency a notable exception through its vigorous support of social justice feminism, particularly during and after the 1926 national Womens Industrial Conference."
10.2307_41317385	2011	"Does current accumulated wealth by nonprofit organizations influence contributions from individuals? Existing research demonstrates that financial reserves aid program continuity during economic downturns. Yet donors, charity watchdogs, and policy makers voice concern about accumulated wealth in nonprofits. This empirical analysis examines whether the expected negative relationship occurs when donors perceive accumulated wealth as excessive. The results support the conclusion that future contributions are negatively affected when wealth levels are deemed excessive. Nonprofit managers concerned that accumulated wealth will diminish donations should consider financial strategies that will allow their organizations to build modest??but not excessive??reserves."
10.2307_23355438	2013	"Local officials in the emergency management field have reached out and increased their connections with other agencies and organizations during the past several years. Collaborative networks have been created in an effort to address the complexities and uncertainties surrounding extreme events. But has this collaboration really taken root? In this article, the authors find that although a collaborative ethos has penetrated local emergency management, it is neither deep nor uniform. Data from a survey of emergency managers in North Carolina counties show that maintaining a functional network??a performance regime in which participants develop consistent management practices and rely on each other for the generation of new ideas??is a difficult task. The explanation for the variation found across the counties largely involves capacity and vulnerability."
10.2307_23017460	2011	"Homeowners associations (HOAs) are private governments that are reshaping urban governance and service delivery in large parts of the United States. Despite the fact that millions of Americans are HOA members, the field of public affairs has paid scant attention to these new governance entities. The essays in this symposium call attention to HOAs' potential effects on urban services and civic life in the hope of sparking interest among scholars and public managers to include HOAs in our understanding, research, and teaching of contemporary urban governance."
10.2307_41433149	2012	"This research empirically assesses the quality of evidence that agencies provided to the Office of Management and Budget in the application of the Program Assessment Rating Tool (PART), introduced in 2002 to more rigorously, systematically, and transparently assess public program effectiveness and hold agencies accountable for results by tying them to the executive budget formulation process and program funding. Evidence submitted by 95 programs administered by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services for the PART assessment is analyzed using measures that capture the quality of evidence and methods used by programs and information on characteristics of agencies that might relate to program results and government funding decisions. The study finds that of those programs offering some evidence, most was internal and qualitative, and about half did not assess how their performance compared to other government or private programs with similar objectives. Programs were least likely to provide externally generated evidence of their performance relative to long-term and annual performance goals. Importantly, overall PART and results scores were (statistically) significantly lower for programs that failed to provide quantitative evidence and did not use long-term measures, baseline measures or targets, or independent evaluations. Although the PART program results ratings and overall PART scores had no discernible consequences for program funding over time, the PART assessments appeared to take seriously the evaluation of evidence quality, a positive step forward in recent efforts to base policy decisions on more rigorous evidence."
10.2307_41317386	2011	"This study investigates the relative effects of four types of family-friendly policies??child care subsidies, paid leave for family care, telework, and alternative work schedules??on turnover rates and effectiveness in federal agencies. Contemporary social exchange theory predicts that an agency s average level of satisfaction with a specific family-friendly policy is negatively associated with turnover in the agency but positively associated with overall performance. This analysis differs from common expectations. Only child care subsidies show a positive, significant influence on reducing turnover. Child care subsidies and alternative work schedules reflect positive and significant influences on agency effectiveness. Ironically, an agency s average satisfaction with telework arrangements proves to be a significant but negative effect on performance."
10.2307_40802239	2010	"Public administration continues to face an identity crisis that turns on the question of whether the animating principles of the discipline are to be discovered in the political foundations of a given regime, or whether they are to be found in more universal and transcendent principles of scientific management. Herbert J. Storing reframed the identity crisis as a problem arising from Americas constitutional system of governance. In doing so, he created an important role for public administration in democratic governance. This role took the form of ""closet statesmanship"" and, in practice, requires the exercise of prudential judgment that looks more like judicial decision making than scientific management. In summarizing Storings writings, the authors convincingly argue that he has much to teach us about the ongoing debate regarding the role of the bureaucracy within America's 87,576 systems of government."
10.2307_41433142	2012	"Special districts are increasingly important in the landscape of public organizations and now constitute about 40percent of all U.S. jurisdictions. Yet little is known about the public value commitments of managers in special districts. This systematic study of senior managers in large special districts finds that support for public values is strong and simihr to that of senior managers in cities. This study explores the effect of concomitant commitments to ""businesslike"" values on public values and the impact of concomitant commitments on perceived organizational outcomes. Though a positive rehtionship exists between commitments to public and businesslike values among senior managers, the authors find evidence that both too much and too little commitment to businesslike values has a negative impact on perceived organizational outcomes, which are furthered by strong commitment to public values. This article demonstrates that special districts are a relevant but underresearched area of public administration."
10.2307_41433150	2012	"An initial assessment of the Mexican governments implementation of the Model for the Performance Evaluation of Internal Control Organizations (MIDO) can reveal its actual influence on the organizational culture of those agencies. MIDO began in 2003 as an instrument to transform all federal monitoring agencies into effective, performance-driven organizations. It seeks to modify the behavior of internal control organizations in order to shift their rigid focus on control to a more flexible perspective. The idea is to allow them to take co-responsibility for the performance of the agencies they supervise. The author exposes a contradictory and paradoxical result of the programs implementation: the ""net organizational ejfect"" is different from MIDO's stated objective. The internal control organizations are not only adopting the discourse of performance, but aho they are adapting it to fit their own purposes while keeping their traditional function of supervision intact. They have not internalized the co-responsibility culture, as MIDO proposes, despite accepting the discourse of performance evaluation."
10.2307_40802237	2010	"Local administrative professionals typically are accountable to multiple stakeholders, including other governmental units, special interests in the business and nonprofit sectors, and citizens. How are these accountability relationships ordered? What is the position of citizens in that hierarchy, particularly the influence of citizen participation? Focusing on patterns of hearing participation and citizen impact on budgeting decisions for the Community Development Block Grant program, this statistical analysis employs ordered pro bit regression. The authors find that communities in which grant administrators feel most accountable to citizens for grant performance have higher degrees of citizen participation in hearings and higher levels of perceived citizen impact on budgetary processes. This relationship holds even in the presence of simultaneity between bureaucratic accountability to citizens and citizen participation. The findings point to the importance of instilling a public service ethic among government employees that places a high value on engaging as well as listening to citizens."
10.2307_40802365	2010	"How has research regarding public service motivation evolved since James L. Perry and Lois Recascino Wise published their essay ""The Motivational Bases of Public Service"" 20 years ago? The authors assess subsequent studies in public administration and in social and behavioral sciences as well as evolving definitions of public service motivation. What have we learned about public service motivation during the last two decades? What gaps in our understanding and knowledge have appeared with respect to the three propositions offered by Perry and Wise? This essay charts new directions for public service motivation scholarship to help clarify current research questions, advance comparative research, and enhance our overall understanding of individuals' public service motives."
10.2307_23355449	2013	"Most research examining the relationship between social capital and outcomes focuses on either internal social capital or external social capital. This article examines the impact of both internal and external social capital on the success of self-organizing community initiatives. A study of community water projects in a developing country, Nepal, shows that communities that enjoy less internal conflict and more external partnerships are more likely to be successful in securing agency funds for their projects. Also, communities face trade-offs between internal and external social capital. These dimensions of social capital are not perfect substitutes, and communities that maintain a strategic balance between the two maximize gains from a trade-off. Moreover, such an optimal choice is dependent on the level of internal and external social capital that these communities hold."
10.2307_41506782	2012	"Scientific conversations can be riddled with confusion when contributions to the discussion are based on notions about ways of knowing that remain implicit. Researchers often mix different methodological positions in their research designs because they lack an awareness of the distinctions between different ways of knowing and their associated methods. The authors engage and reflect on these differences, with particular attention to four areas: research question formulations, the character and role of concepts and theories, hypotheses versus puzzles, and case study research. They call on all researchers, both academics and practitioners, to be aware of the ways in which scientific terms serve, in research debates, as signifiers of different logics of inquiry. Awareness of these differences is important for the sake of productive scientific discussions and for the logical consistency of research, as both of the ways of knowing discussed here are legitimate scientific endeavors, albeit invoking different evaluative criteria."
10.2307_41433147	2012	"Although the high-reliability organization (HRO) literature identifies several attributes that differentiate HROsfrom other types of organizations, these studies do not explain how an HRO comes into being, nor do they provide a means to gauge or measure the extent to which an organization exhibits the specified features. This article reports the results of a 97-year longitudinal case study tracking the emergence and continuation of HRO characteristics in the Federal Aviation Administrations air traffic control operations to answer the following questions: how do HRO functions emerge in public organizations, and do policy changes lead administrative changes, or is there little relation between policy and organizational change? The analysis shows that (1) HRO characteristics emerged incrementally over an extremely long period of time, and (2) policy changes preceded organizational changes early in the process of HRO development, but the refationship of policy change to organizational change decreased in hter stages."
10.2307_41688037	2012	"With the United States grappling with the greatest economics downturn since the Great Depression, questions are emerging about whether outsourcing contributes to the instability of government service production. In this article, the authors explore systemic risk in privatized service implementation networks. Reliance on networks of private agents for service production contributes to the disarticulated and fragmented state and increases the potential for systemic crisis if shocks to the network occur, putting vulnerable clients at risk. Government must focus on understanding systemic risk in networked governance arrangements and building resilient networks to avoid crises, the authors argue. Finally, potential research on systemic risk in networked governance arrangements is discussed."
10.2307_41317414	2011	"Federalist No. 10 contains an optimistic view of the national government's ability to fulfill its obligations in the midst of what was, at the time, a small but challenged nation. This essay suggests that the founders did not anticipate the pernicious effects of rent seeking, corruption, and repression of minorities, and they failed to anticipate the calamities associated with slavery. The essay asks about the role of government as a party machine, a business, a policy process, and a contractor and examines a variety of contemporary theories for explaining government performance."
10.2307_23355445	2013	"In recent years, many public sector reforms have attempted to loosen personnel constraints on the assumption that more managerial flexibility will increase organizational performance. The authors mount an empirical study to test this assumption using data taken from English local government authorities. Personnel constraints are operationalized using Rainey's long-standing measures of the concept. Statistical results from multiple regression analyses indicate that ""difficulty in removing poor managers"" is harmful to organizational performance, but ""difficulty in rewarding good managers"" has no effect. The authors delve inside the organizational hierarchy and find that attitudes toward personnel constraints vary by organizational level and managerial rank: for example, frontline managers feel more constrained overall, while senior managers' perceptions of constraints are more closely linked to organizational performance but in some unexpected ways. The implications of these findings, including the fact that personnel constraints have varying impacts on organizational performance, are considered."
10.2307_23355471	2013	"The literature on performance information use explains how public managers deal with mainly quantitative data that are systematically collected and formally reported. This article argues that such a narrow understanding is incomplete, as it excludes all kinds of nonroutine performance information, including verbal, ad hoc, and qualitative feedback. To understand how responsive public managers are to performance feedback, alternative sources of performance information need to be taken into account. A literature review suggests considering two important sources of nonroutine feedback: organizational insiders and relevant external stakeholders. Using survey data from German local government, this article shows that public managers prefer to use nonroutine feedback over routine data from performance reports. Furthermore, a regression analysis indicates that different sources of performance information require different determinants to trigger their use. This finding is essential because it suggests that explanations of performance information use can covary with the information source studied."
10.2307_23017495	2011	"Despite academic findings that performance information seldom is used in appropriations decisions, many professional organizations and governments continue to press for integrating performance information into local public management, planning, and budgeting processes. Is it possible to reconcile such inconsistencies? Looking beyond the executive?? legislative relationship and departmental appropriations, the author examines the budget implications of applying performance information at the subdepartmental program level. Case analysis of Indianapolis's IndyStat initiative underscores that performance measurement application is positively related to intradepartmental program budget changes. Hence, performance-based budgeting (PBB) can improve local budgeting despite severe political constraints. Still, successful use of PBB requires strong executive leadership, and its effects remain less visible at the departmental level or within the wider political arena of legislative bargaining. The author concludes by recommending some rethinking of the current analytical focus of PBB both in future research as well as recommended practice."
10.2307_40606405	2010	"Public-private partnerships (PPPs) are growing in popularity as a governing model for delivery of public goods and services. PPPs have existed since the Roman Empire, but their expansion into traditional public projects today raises serious questions about public accountability. This article examines public accountability and its application to government and private firms involved in PPPs. An analytical framework is proposed for assessing the extent to which PPPs provide (or will provide) goods and services consistent with public sector goals of effectiveness, efficiency, and equity. Six dimensions??risk, costs and benefits, political and social impacts, expertise, collaboration, and performance measurement??are incorporated into a model that assists public managers in improving partnerships' public accountability."
10.2307_41061185	2011	"How effective was organizational reform implemented inside one critical New York City health agency? Specifically we examine the extent to which the reorganization of the HIV/AIDS Services Administration (HASA) into the Medical Insurance Services Administration (MICSA) achieved three goals: (1) realizing synergies among the component MICSA programs; (2) cross-fertilizing ideas among MICSA agencies; and (3) facilitating HASA operations through the lens of organization change theory. Qualitative methods including interviews, site visits, and document analysis triangulate the effects of the reorganization. Implications for organization change literature are explored, especially highlighting where more theoretical and empirical studies are needed."
10.2307_42003018	2013	"This Perspective explains why implementation analysis of the cost control provisions within the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act is not particuhrly useful. These provisions are either relatively straightforward or, more commonly, so flawed that successful implementation is highly unlikely. The analysis shows that effective and equitable cost control will require coordinating payers to create all-payer fee setting. This poses significant challenges but has been implemented relatively successfully in many countries. The balance of the article uses experience with all-payer systems in other countries and fee setting within Medicare to identify key choices within any allpayer system. It highlights the importance of simplifying considerations and focusing on outcomes??the incomes of providers and total spending??rather than engaging in a hopeless search for technocratic payment ""accuracy."""
10.2307_41433146	2012	"Survey research is a common tool for assessing public opinions, perceptions, attitudes, and behaviors for analyses in many social science disciplines. Yet there is little knowledge regarding how specific elements of survey research methodology are applied in practice in public administration. This article examines five mainstream public administration journals over an eight-year period regarding current methodological practice, organized around the total survey error framework. The findings show that survey research in the field of public administration features mainly small-scale studies, heavy reliance on a single data collection mode, questionable sample selection procedures, and suspect sample frame quality. Survey data largely are analyzed without careful consideration of assumptions or potential sources of error. An informed evaluation of the quality of survey data is made more difficult by the fact that many journal articles do not detail data collection procedures. This study concludes with suggestions for improving the quality and reporting of survey research in the field."
10.2307_40802229	2010	"The development of states coincides with the continuous (re) definition of administrative limits, according to Kutsal Yesilkagit, in this response to Christopher Hood. Hoods thought-provoking essay suggests putting the concept of administrative limits to greater use as an analytical concept and explores the idea of administrative limits from three basic ways of thinking: cybernetics, economics and cultural theory. This author critically analyzes one of Hoods main conclusions ?? that different types of administrative limits may exist, and that ""what kinds of limits we find where is likely to remain a central and contested issue in administrative analysis"""
10.2307_41433292	2012	"Economic theory suggests that it is optimal for governments to use precautionary saving as a countercyclical tool.However, the availability of surplus funds often triggers political pressure for tax cuts and spending increases.Mechanisms for alleviating that pressure include limiting the transparency of slack resources and limiting politicians' discretion to use slack resources for purposes other than stabilization. This article investigates the extent to which these two mechanisms are substitutes. In particular, the authors examine whether the widespread adoption of budget stabilization funds (BSFs) in the U. S. states over the past several decades has been accompanied by a decline in conservative revenue forecast bias. Using panel data from 47 states over a 22-year penod, they find that the adoption of a BSF reduces revenue underestimation by approximately two-thirds; however, the size of the effect depends in part on how much a state saves in the BSF and the rules governing BSF deposits and withdrawah. The results suggest that BSFs have the unintended effect of increasing fiscal transparency."
10.2307_40984135	2010	"This article seeks to identify the status and infrastructure of public service in 2020. It first examines Leonard Whites early effort at predicting a future search for public service, written in 1942, but with an eye toward the 1950s and 1960s. The authors assess the subsequent structural and ideological development of public service to lay a framework for their own projection of the public service of the future. They anticipate important foundational shifts that will lead to a revaluing of public service and opportunities to reinvigorate public work. The authors conclude with a list of six specific public service infrastructure changes that they anticipate will become manifest by 2020."
10.2307_41317423	2011	"Federalist Nos. 67??77 offer a strong defense of the ""energetic executive"" embedded in the new constitution, which is perhaps best captured in Alexander Hamilton's famous conclusion that ""the true test of a good government is its aptitude and tendency to produce a good administration. ""This essay places this basic definition into historical context by reviewing the erosion of the national government's emphasis on public duty as a prerequisite for effectiveness. Reading widely across the Federalist Papers, the author argues that the founders would be taken aback by the national government's sheer scale and complexity and would strongly restate their basic principles of a government well executed."
10.2307_41688034	2012	"Street-level workers' judgments, decisions, and actions touch on questions of social equity, a dominant theme of H. George Fredericksons deep contributions to public administration scholarship. Based on empirical work, the authors question the dominant implementation-control-discretion narrative and suggest an alternative framing based on the concepts of agency and pragmatic improvisation. Street-level workers are often conservers of institutional norms and practices, but their work surfaces tensions between practice and the goals of social equity."
10.2307_40984140	2010	"Luther Gulick was both an academic anda reformer. In the latter role, he thought seriously about what the future of public administration might look like. This essay examines his work as a lens through which to view the future of public administration in 2020. Gulick suggests that public administration needs a governance orientation to link scholarship with the realities of practice, a recognition of the bias of structures, a stress on the informal elements of organization, additional research on almost every question, a recognition of the importance of ethics, a stress on the importance of context, and a fundamental appreciation of the role that public management plays in fostering democracy."
10.2307_41433139	2012	"Among Vincent Ostrom's many contributions to the study of public administration, policy and political science, the concept of polycentricity remains his single most important legacy. This essay locates the origins of this concept in Ostroms early research on resource management in the Western United States and demonstrates its continuing influence throughout The Intellectual Crisis in Public Administration, The Political Theory of a Compound Republic, and his other major publications. Although typically pigeonholed within the confines of the public choice tradition, Ostrom's body of work should be widely appreciated as an early statement of the critical importance of network forms of governance in democratic societies."
10.2307_41687989	2012	"This article argues that administrative burden??that is, an individual's experience of policy implementation as onerous??is an important consideration for administrators and influences their views on policy and governance options. The authors test this proposition in the policy area of election administration using a mixed-method assessment of local election officials They find that the perceived administrative burden of policies is associated with a preference to shift responsibilities to others, perceptions of greater flaws and lesser merit in policies that have created the burden (to the point that such judgments are demonstrably wrong), and opposition to related policy innovations."
10.2307_23355479	2013	"The determinants and consequences of contracting are examined in more than 1,000 Texas school districts for 1997??2008. The results largely replicate prior research by O'Toole and Meier, showing that contracting is negatively related to spending on school districts' core instructional functions and that the relationship between contracting and bureaucracy is reciprocal. The present findings, based on data from a longer period, indicate that contracting is positively related to school district performance. This article also finds support for an extended model of contracting determinants involving two environmental shocks: negative budget shocks and enrollment shocks."
10.2307_41061160	2011	"With faith in government waning, cultural diversity spiralingy and fiscal stress straining the ability of policy makers to address the policy challenges accompanying these developments, the salience of (re) connecting citizens with government takes on renewed urgency today. Nowhere is this more the case than in urban America, where so-called global cities teeming with ethnic diversity and controlling a disproportionate amount of global business in the world economy confront profound citizen participation challenges, choices, and opportunities. In this installment of Thoery to Practice, the authors cull lessons from their 10-year action theory-based assessment and participation in the city of Los Angeles' neighborhood council experience. Comparing and contrasting their findings in this global city with those from related studies on participatory mechanisms and deliberative processes more generally, they offer six lessons for those seeking to build stronger democracy in urban areas, argue that further advances require a greater research focus on the longitudinal implementation of these efforts rather than just on their design, and contend that university researchers have a role to play in these efforts as long as they appreciate the paradoxical nature of their participation. Expert e-commentary by Brian Cook of Virginia Tech, Tina Nabatchi of Syracuse University, and John Thomas of Georgia State University on the perspectives and arguments culled from Los Angeles' theory-based participatory efforts can be found on the PAR website (go to aspanet. org, click on the link to PAR, and then on the Theory to Practice link). These e-commentaries are accompanied by the authors' response and instructions on how PAR readers can join the exchange."
10.2307_41061187	2011	"Increasingly, public sector organizations collaborate to buy products and services. They collectively form purchasing groups to deliver more value for money. What is the progress of these small-scale developments of public sector purchasing groups to date, in the early phases of their life cycle? Although previous research provides general descriptions of life-cycle phases, little attention has been paid to detailed small-scale developments that take place within each life-cycle phase. As a result, little knowledge is available about small-scale developments of purchasing groups. More insight is important in order to better understand how purchasing groups can develop over time from one life-cycle phase into another. Three in-depth case studies from different countries offer a unique comparative overview of smallscale developments in these early life-cycle phases for their five dimensions. Most small-scale problems follow a predictable path, but the way in which the purchasing groups deal with such problems differs depending on the specific situation of the group."
10.2307_40984124	2010	"Federal departments and agencies increasingly rely on services to accomplish their missions. ""Sourcing"" refers to how government departments and agencies obtain the services they need to solve their mission delivery requirements and how those decisions are reached. Determining whether to obtain required services using federal employees or contracts with the private sector is an important legal, policy, economic, and strategic decision. The impact of decisions on the total federal workforce, both in house and those under contract, is profound. This article describes the issue of (sourcing, ""provides definitions and distinctions regarding some often confusing (and confused) terms, and suggests the possibility of new forms of sourcing. The author concludes that sourcing should not be subject to a rigid pursuit of sterile, ideological orthodoxy. Instead, sourcing requires a reasoned and thoughtful approach, tempered with pragmatism. The proper balance of these characteristics will vary across agencies because each has a different mission, structure, funding mix, and workforce."
10.2307_42002956	2013	"Place marketing is increasingly being used as a governance strategy for managing perceptions about regions, cities, and towns. What are the most important obstacles to implementing place marketing? Based on a survey of 274 public managers involved in place marketing in the Netherlands, this article analyzes the main obstacles as perceived by public managers. It also analyzes the effects of obstacles on perceived results of place marketing in terms of attracting target groups. A factor analysis of a variety of obstacles investigated in the survey shows three clearly demarcated obstacles: administrative obstacles within municipalities, obstacles in developing the substance of marketing campaigns, and political obstacles. Obstacles in developing the substance of the marketing campaigns have significant effects on the results of place marketing in terms of attracting stakeholders, whereas the two other obstacles have no significant influence."
10.2307_41506781	2012	"A growing number of public administration theorists are taking up the question of ontology??the nature of existence. This primer on the topic provides a basic explanation of ontology, describes the fundamental debates in the competing ontologies of Western philosophy, and discusses why ontology is important to social and political theory, as well as to public administration theory and practice. Using an ideal-type approach, the author analyzes how different ontologies imply particular political forms that undergird public administration theories and practices. This ideal-type model can be used to identify the ontological assumptions in these theories and practices. The article concludes with an invitation for personal reflection on the part of scholars and practitioners in regard to which ontology best fits their experience and beliefs and the alternatives that we might pursue for a better future."
10.2307_40606395	2010	"Are charges of racial disparities in the Federal Emergency Management Agency's relief efforts in New Orleans following Hurricane Katrina accurate? Limited publicly available data on trailer distribution in New Orleans are compared to an on-site trailer count and to a complete trailer count from aerial photographs of New Orleans. The Lower Ninth Ward in Orleans Parish (98 percent Black prior to Hurricane Katrina) had significantly fewer trailers than neighboring Arabi in St. Bernard Parish (95 percent White prior to Hurricane Katrina). To control for administrative differences between parishes and socio economic factors, two affluent neighborhoods within Orleans Parish, Pontchartrain Park (97percent Black prior to Hurricane Katrina), and Lakeview (94 percent White prior to Hurricane Katrina), are compared. The conclusion: racial discrepancies remain large and substantial. A number of hypotheses are developed and the implications discussed."
10.2307_40802238	2010	"Does board diversity or representativeness influence organizational performance? Though it is understudied in both the public and the nonprofit sectors, learning more about this critical subject can enhance organizational performance within highly collaborative settings. Community mediation centers, which rely on multiple public and private resources to meet their programmatic objectives, provide excellent case studies for analyzing the impact of different kinds of interorganizational linkages on organizational performance. A multitheoretic view incorporating agency, resource dependence, and stakeholder perspectives is employed through a national sample and a two-stage analysis using a logic model to test the cumulative impact of board characteristics and interorganizational relationships on organizational outcomes. Organizations' collaborative capacity depends on several kinds of boundary-spanning activities, including network ties, revenue sources, and the number of stakeholder groups represented on the board."
10.2307_41433293	2012	"For more than three decades, the U.S. national government has wrestled with the problem of siting a central repository for high-level radioactive waste, most of it spent fuel from nuclear power plants. Scholars and practitioners recommend a collaborative and participative approach to the siting process to ensure accountability and representativeness, but the search for a working repository so far has been unsuccessful.Consequently, more nuclear power plants must add or expand dry cask facilities to store accumulating amounts of spent fuel. Are collaboration and accountability and successful execution of results possible in state decisions on dry cask storage in a way that they have eluded the central siting process? The special characteristics of dispersed dry cask storage, in contrast to transporting the waste to a central repository, can facilitate co?aboration and accountability, as decisions on dry cask storage in Minnesota and Vermont demonstrate."
10.2307_41433148	2012	"The extensive literature about the George W. Bush administrations Program Assessment Rating Tool (PART) has not emphasized an issue that appears quite clearly in interviews with senior Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and congressional staff. Budget analysis can pursue efficiency in two ways. One, the object of traditional analysis, involves assessing programs to understand the ratio of inputs to outputs within an agency, and thus the effects of more or less funding. Another approach, termed ""budgeting for results,"" measures program performance so as to allocate funding among programs in a way that increases total welfare. The second approach is much more difficult because it necessitates comparison of measures of unlike phenomena, requires expertise that often does not exist, and is more easily contested as invoking values rather than facts. Both congressional and OMB sources report concerns that PART weakened budget analysis by diverting resources from traditional analysis. If one goal of reformers is for the OMB to provide analysis that will influence Congress, the focus should be on strengthening the capacity to do traditional budget analysis."
10.2307_40984094	2010	"It is widely believed that projected changes in the age structure of the U. S. population will create serious fiscal pressures at the federal level. Irrespective of any reforms undertaken at the federal level these demographic trends also will have a direct impact on the way state and local governments operate. A review of recent population projections to 2020 reveals a great deal of heterogeneity in demographic trends at lower levels of government. Population aging will accompany overall population growth in some localities, and shrinkage in others. It also will coincide with a broad range of changes in the proportion of children under 18. The authors consider several responses to these demographic developments in the realm of public management: First, they consider major fiscal implications, which may prompt a range of managerial responses pertaining to the scope and mix of public services and the design of public programs. Second, they discuss the effects of demographic change on the composition of the state and local government workforce. Finally, the authors revisit the alleged ""exogeneity"" of demographic forces and suggest new and fruitful areas for future research."
10.2307_40802369	2010	"The political role of public administration holds an ambiguous status in public administration theory. The dominant paradigms of the discipline offer more or less negative perspectives. Max Weber's notion of bureaucracy conceives public administration as the apolitical tool of government, while the public choice school conceives it as the realm of individual selfishness and rent seeking at taxpayers' expense. In this unfavorable epistemological environment, positive concepts of what makes public administration ""political"" can hardly flourish. However, as public authorities may organize clientele participation and consequently co-opt stakeholders, they provide for symbolic sense making and create patterns of identity. Public administration thus works as apolitical integrator in its own right. Unfortunately, this subject is not prominent within contemporary scholarly research. German political integration through administration is analyzed here in order to address these and related theoretical questions."
10.2307_40606378	2010	"Local governments increasingly confront policy problems that span the boundaries of individual political jurisdictions. Institutional theories of local governance and intergovernmental relations emphasize the importance of networks for fostering service cooperation among local governments. Yet empirical research faih to examine systematically the effects of social networks on interlocal service cooperation. Do the individual networks of local government actors increase their jurisdiction's level of interlocal service delivery? Drawing data from the National Administrative Studies Project IV (NASP-IV), multivariate analysis is applied to examine this question among 919 municipal managers and department heads across the United States. The findings indicate that interlocal service cooperation increases when jurisdictional actors network frequently through a regional association or council of government and when they are united by a common set of professional norms and disciplinary values. Manager participation in professional associations, however, does not increase interjurisdictional cooperation. The key conclusion for heal government practitioners searching for ways to increase collaboration: networks that afford opportunities for more face-to-face interaction yield better results for effective service partnerships."
10.2307_23017498	2011	"This case study reports an innovative e-government experiment by a local government in Seoul, South Korea??Gangnam-gu. A new local political leadership in Gangnam made strategic use of e-government applications to exert greater political control over the local civil service bureaucracy. The authors find that e-government applications possess political properties that can be applied effectively by the political leadership as instruments to improve control over the government bureaucracy as well as to enhance essential government accountability and transparency. The political circumstances underlying e-government development as well as its impact on local government are reported, along with key variables associated with this innovation and directions for future research."
10.2307_41688047	2012	"Administrative reforms encode a set of behavioral expectations for bureaucrats to follow. The authors argue that scholars can usefully contribute to understanding accountability by studying whether bureaucrats follow these expectations and what factors encourage such responsiveness to reform values. To demonstrate this approach y the authors examine performance information use as a behavioral measure of responsiveness to results-based reforms. Using a sample of Texas school superintendents; they find that general openness to the environment goes hand in hand with responsiveness to reform values. The authors propose that such a pattern will hold when reform values align with environmental preferences. The perceived influence of stakeholders, networking with stakeholders, and reliance on partnerships all positively predict performance information use. Environments marked by student diversity and stake-holder conflict aho correlate with higher use of performance data, while capacity, less managerial experience, and a unified organizational culture correlate positively with higher reported performance information use."
10.2307_42003132	2013	"This article examines how ideological differences between political officials and agencies may have affected the implementation of an ostensibly nonpartisan, government-wide administrative initiative: the George W. Bush administration's Program Assessment Rating Tool (PART) review of federal programs. The analysis reveals that managers in agencies associated with liberal programs and employees (""liberal agencies"") agreed to a greater extent than those in agencies associated with conservative programs and employees (""conservative agencies"") that PART required significant agency time and effort and that it imposed a burden on management resources. Further analysis reveals that differences in reported agency effort can be explained partly by objective differences in the demands that PART placed on agencies??liberal agencies were required to evaluate more programs and implement more improvement plans relative to their organizational capacity??and partly by the ideological belie?? of employees??on average, liberal managers reported more agency effort, even after accounting for objective measures of administrative burden."
10.2307_23017501	2011	"E-government uses information and communication technology to provide citizens with information about public services. Less pervasive, e-democracy offers greater electronic community access to political processes and policy choices. Few studies have examined these twin applications separately, although they are widely discussed in the literature as distinct. The authors, Chung-pin Lee of Tamkang University and Kaiju Chang and Frances Stokes Berry of Florida State University, empirically analyze factors associated with the relative level of development of e-government and e-democracy across 131 countries. Their hypotheses draw on four explanations of policy change??learning, political norms, competition, and citizen pressures. All four explanations are strongly linked to nations where e-government policy is highly advanced, whereas a country's e-democracy development is connected to complex internal factors, such as political norms and citizen pressures."
10.2307_41317413	2011	"Federalist No. 10 arguably is the most frequently read of the Federalist Papers, in no small measure because it offers a distinct and often negative image of the polity as a source of conflict. It argues that factions cannot be tamed, but they can be controlled. This essay argues that factions have weakened effective public administration and offers a detailed discussion of the proliferation of interest groups and their role in undermining the system of checks and balances."
10.2307_23355440	2013	"Spain experienced an outbreak of public sector corruption??much of it related to the involvement of regional and local administrators and politicians in the country's urban development boom??that angered the public and sparked calls for government reform. Using data from a 2009 survey that followed these events, the authors examine the association between perceived corruption and the attitudes and behaviors of citizens, including satisfaction with government and democracy, social and institutional trust, and rule-breaking behaviors. The findings suggest that perceptions of administrative as well as political corruption are associated with less satisfaction, lower levels of social and institutional trust, and a greater willingness to break rules. Although these survey results cannot prove causation, they are consistent with the notion that administrative and political corruption damages the legitimacy of government in the eyes of citizens and weakens the social fabric of democratic society."
10.2307_40802372	2010	"The rationale for collaborative environmental management often hinges on two factors: first, specialized training creates biased analytics that require multidisciplinary approaches to solve policy problems; second, normative beliefs among competing actors must be included in policy making to give the process legitimacy and to decide trans-scientific problems. These two factors are tested as drivers of conflict in an analysis of 76 watershed partnerships. The authors find that analytical bias is a secondary factor to normative belief; that depicting the primary driver of conflict in collaborative environmental management as between experts and nonexperts is inaccurate; that compared to the ""life"" and ""physical"" sciences, the social sciences and liberal arts have a stronger impact on beliefs and choice of allies and opponents; and that multiple measures are needed to capture the effect of analytical biases. The essay offers lessons for public administrators and highlights the limitations and generalizations of other governing approaches."
10.2307_40984125	2010	"What would another Hurricane Katrina bring in 2020? Is government at all levels ready for such an event? This essay argues that learning to manage actions supporting disaster response and recovery operations consistently and effectively requires strategic, not reactive, thinking. It adopts a framework based in issues focused thinking, externally focused management, and opportunity-seeking behavior to examine the complex mix of individuals, organizations, and actions involved in response and recovery. The authors conclude that strides have been made since Katrina, but the development of greater strategic capacity is a necessary prerequisite to effective disaster management in the future."
10.2307_41317425	2011	"Federalist No. 70 sets the stage for a powerful chief executive through its emphasis on energy in the executive. This essay reviews the challenges of holding this energy accountable in a republican form of government and concludes that recent presidents have stretched their authorities beyond even the most aggressive defense of the concept. Comparing presidents Abraham Lincoln and George W. Bush, the author concludes that the founders never intended to give any president authority to suspend the law during emergencies. His appendix to Federalist No. 70 is designed to both restate and reset the debate about just how far presidents may go in pursuit of national goals."
10.2307_41317431	2011	"Federalist No. 85 offers a synopsis of the overall case for the Constitution. Describing the dangers of a nation without a national government as an ""awful spectacle,"" the paper provides a rebuttal to the active opposition to ratification. Focusing entirely on the operations of government, this essay examines contemporary challenges to faithfully executing the laws and offers an analysis of comprehensive reforms for creating greater accountability, efficiency, and productivity."
10.2307_42003083	2013	"High-reliability advocates chim that highly reliable organizations (HROs), such as the Federal Aviation Administration's (FAA) air traffic control system, routinely demonstrate the ability to safely and reliably perform large-scale technical operations. High leveh of productivity with low levels of error are achieved even though complex technologies are used to accomplish mission goah. A recent study asserted that the FAA s air traffic control function developed HRO characteristics over a long period of time as part of a Urger high-reliability system. In that study, identifiable and measurable attributes and characteristics associated with high reliability were constructed, and their emergence was tracked over time. In this article, time-senes analysis was used to measure the relationship between charactenstics associated with high reliability and commercial aviation accident reduction. A small but statistically significant effect was identified linking the adoption of HRO characteristics over time with a reduction in commercial aviation accident rates."
10.2307_40469109	2010	"Can public sector organizations increase productivity through competition in spite of inherent limitations, such as budget constraints? This study addresses that question by examining the impact of four factors that contribute to employees expectations regarding competitive work environments on organizational performance in terms of overall quality of work and client satisfaction. The four factors measured include rewards for merit such as salary and benefits, opportunities, organizational rules, and the capacity to deal with risks as perceived by employees. Using data on public and nonprofit sector employees, expectations for merit rewards were positively related to employees' perception of organizational performance when the conditions of performance-based organizational rules and risk-taking behaviors were also satisfied. Moreover, employees' perceptions of organizational performance tended to increase when they felt that organizational rules were oriented toward performance plus organizational members and top leaders exhibited greater risk-taking behaviors. However, no correlation was evident between employees expectations of opportunities and perceived organizational performance."
10.2307_40606401	2010	"As director of a regional council for more than 30 years, Bill Gibson is instrumental in facilitating ""boundary-crossing"" collaborations that increase public value. This Administrative Profile examines three cases of regional, cross-sector collaboration catalyzed by Gibsons leadership. Characteristics of entrepreneurship, attention to ""relationship capital,"" and the humility derived from ego strength combine with the context of working for a boundary organization to help expUin his success."
10.2307_42003076	2013	"Leadership theories and the academic literature can sometimes seem difficult for practitioners to understand because of complex conceptualizations, obscure terms y and its enormousness. Yet taken as a whole, the literature makes a great deal of sense and has much to offer. Indeed, the truths are often quite simple, elegant, and straightforward. The purpose of this article is to review the major findings of the organizational leadership literature and to identify the important overarching insights, specifically those of particuUr importance to todays leaders in administrative positions in the public sector, where an evolving context constantly reconfigures age-old challenges."
10.2307_41317422	2011	"Federalist No. 67 generally is read as a vigorous defense of the chief executive and contains intense language to alleviate fears of a dictatorial president. However, it also can be read as a much deeper explication of the blend of republican and energetic government. The author examines this defense within the larger stream of Federalist Papers and compares the Anti-Federalist attacks against a strong executive and Alexander Hamilton's aggressive justifications."
10.2307_40802231	2010	"To what extent were Woodrow Wilsons ideas about public administration informed by German organic political theory? Drawing on the writings of Wilson, Lorenz von Stein, and Johann Bluntschli on public administration, and comparing American and German primary sources, the author offers insights into Wilsons general concept of public administration, as well as his understanding of the politics??administration dichotomy. With regard to current administrative research, this study underscores how the transfer of ideas profoundly contributes to advancing comparative public administration and helps clarify terminological difficulties and conflicting perspectives among diverse administrative science traditions."
10.2307_41317384	2011	"What is the role of stipends as an institutional facilitator in volunteer civic service? By examining the relationship of stipend receipt to volunteer diversity, time commitment, and perceived benefits from a longitudinal study of older adults serving in Experience Corps, this article assesses stipend status relative to volunteer sociodemographic characteristics, motivations, intensity and duration of time served, and volunteers' self-reported benefits. The findings underscore how stipends may promote participant diversity. In particular, stipended older adult volunteers serve for longer periods of time, but their motivations for serving do not differ. Stipended volunteers report higher perceived benefits than nonstipended volunteers. The results suggest that stipends may leverage wider inclusion, increase retention, and contribute to other benefits, but additional research is needed using more controlled and comparative designs."
10.2307_41061155	2011	"The federal government often works through nonprofit intermediaries to reach and empower communities in the United States. One increasingly popular policy strategy is to offer grant funding to intermediary organizations in an effort to strengthen communities. Funded intermediaries are tasked with building the capacity of faith-based and community organizations at the local level, but the policy theory that informs these programs does not specify how these capacity-building efforts will lead to stronger communities. Missing is a middle-range implementation theory that links inputs to community-level changes through the actions of an intermediary. Derived from empirical case study evidence using process-tracing analysis, the theory of the communityintegrated intermediary posited in this article helps fill that gap."
10.2307_40802375	2010	"For decades, federal district court judges have been deeply involved in the reform of state and local government agencies. Some scholars describe such a judicial role in institutional reform as ""managerial"" This profile examines the managerial role of Judge fohn Feikens, who, since 1977, has supervised the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department's attempts to comply with federal laws on wastewater treatment and water quality. Through his sustained, effective oversight, Feikens became an influential mediator of metropolitan cooperation. His persistence in resolving metropolitan conflict may be viewed with concern by those who worry about lengthy court involvement in public administration. However, this insightful profile underscores poignant contemporary lessons, even from judicial actions, for enhancing metropolitan problem solving."
10.2307_23355444	2013	"The U.S. Congress created the Small Disadvantaged Business (SDB) and Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) programs to promote fairness in government contracting. In this article, the authors examine whether increases in racial and gender representation in federal agencies correlate with the proportion of contract dollars awarded to women- and minority-owned firms. Using the theory of representative bureaucracy as a starting point, they find evidence that increases in passive minority representation result in a larger proportion of contract dollars awarded to minority-owned firms, which comports with previous empirical research. There is no evidence, however, that female representation leads directly or indirectly to substantive benefits for women-owned small businesses. Given that the findings for women do not support representative bureaucracy, the authors provide potential alternative explanations. Specifically, they consider gender bias, social identity, and the ""queen bee"" phenomenon as possible explanations for why women are less inclined to advocate for other women."
10.2307_41506776	2012	"Practitioners and scholars of postcommunist politics disagree on the accomplishments of administrative reforms in new Eastern European democracies. The transformation of the public sector after 1989 has aimed to consolidate the democratic process and enhance economic development. Skeptics, however, argue that administrative reforms face serious challenges in the context of economic liberalization, insufficient capacity for modernization, and cultural legacies of the past. The authors judge reform effectiveness by testing the impact of civil service reform on government transparency and foreign direct investment. The results of the empirical analysis confirm that once reform is adopted, administrations become more effective at reducing corruption and attracting investment. Despite the delays and difficulties of implementation, the adoption of reform is important in and of itself, and countries can expect positive results sooner than skeptics predict."
10.2307_42003019	2013	"The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) of 2010 has been one of the most controversial laws in decades. The ACA relies extensively on the cooperation of states for its implementation, offering opportunities for both local adaptation and political roadblocks. Health insurance exchanges are one of the most important components of the for achieving its goal of near-universal coverage. Despite significant financial support from the federal government, many governors and legislatures have taken actions that have blocked or delayed significant progress in developing their exchanges. However, many state commissioners of insurance have played constructive roles in moving states forward in exchange planning through their expertise, leadership, and pragmatism, sometimes in spite of strong political opposition to the from governors and legislatures."
10.2307_40606393	2010	"What are the differences between the public and private sectors as well as their interrelationships in light of the recent financial crisis? Has the global economic crisis fundamentally shifted the boundaries between the two sectors? This essay examines the nature and extent of the shift. The authors present an analysis of the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) to highlight the massive transformations that are taking pUce and to introduce lessons for future policy initiatives. Between financial rescue missions and the economic stimulus program, government spending accounts for a bigger share of the nations economy??26 percent??than at any time since World War II. The government is financing 9 out of 10 new mortgages in the United States. If you buy a car from General Motors, you are buying from a company that is 60 percent owned by the government. If you take out a car loan or run up your credit card, the chances are good that the government is financing both your debt and that of your bank."
10.2307_23017470	2011	"Employing a resource dependence theoretical framework, the authors analyze a set of recently awarded contracts between the Environmental Protection Agency and its suppliers to determine how joint dependence, supplier dependence, and government dependence affect contract design??specifically, the decision to use a cost-plus (flexible) contract. Findings provide evidence that organizations choose contract designs that will reduce uncertainty related to securing critical resources. However, different dimensions of dependence have different effects: (1) higher levels of joint dependence lead to more flexible governance forms; (2) the lack of alternative suppliers is a more important factor than high levels of financial dependence; and (3) the parties involved in government procurement are likely to perceive government as a unique type of organization, which, in turn, has implications for contract design choices. The authors conclude with managerial strategies for restructuring power/dependence relationships to achieve the contract design most likely to yield a surplus in the exchange."
10.2307_41506808	2012	"Agency accreditation has grown steadily as a management strategy in recent decades. Accreditation is meant to help professionalize public administration work by requiring an agency to adopt policies and practices that are sanctioned by an external organization. Advocates claim that accreditation facilitates the diffusion of best practices and builds a culture of professionalism in an agency. Accreditation clearly leads agencies to adopt formal policies. This article identifies two ways in which accreditation might affect organizational culture: (1) by socializing employees, and (2) by signaling the agency's priorities to employees. Analyzing attitudinal data from officers in six American police departments, this study finds no association between accreditation and officers' own values, but finds that accreditation is strongly correlated with officers' perceptions of their agencies' priorities."
10.2307_40984123	2010	"Strategic management is now prominent on the agenda of public administration scholars and practitioners. In this review, the authors outline why approaches based on strategy are suited to public agencies, noting the ways in which strategy varies across public organizations, seeks to match internal capacities to organizational environments, and shapes the impact of external and internal constraints on performance. Empirical evidence on the impact of strategy on performance is placed under the microscope, and while there are many positive relationships, the evidence base is limited in terms of its scope, data, methods, measures, and coverage. The authors trace out what needs to be done to move the field forward, noting in particular that theoretical enrichment, empirical variety, and explanations of causal complexity are likely to come from a synthesis of models of strategy and publicness."
10.2307_42003026	2013	"Although the federal government will finance most of the coverage expansions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA), implementation is largely devolved to states. Drawing from interviews with HIV policy experts and program managers and a documents review, the authors enumerate actions that must occur at multiple levels of government in order for ACA implementation in the context of HIV care to improve access to health care and health outcomes and the conditions under which these may fall short. Positive outcomes are predicted for HIV patients in states with sufficient political support and resources to implement the ACA. However, outcomes may worsen in states that do not implement the Medicaid expansion or other ACA provisions, particularly if federal funding for discretionary safety net programs is reduced. Transitioning patients from HIV-specific programs to other coverage sources may also reduce HIV services in states that previously were at the forefront of HIV care."
10.2307_42002994	2013	"This article integrates the research evidence that applies Miles and Snow's strategic management framework to the performance of public agencies. Miles and Snow developed several strategy types, arguing that prospectors (searching for new approaches) and defenders (sticking with the existing pattern of services) are aligned with processes, structures, and the environment in ways that lead them to outperform reactors (awaiting for instructions from the environment), which have no consistent strategy or alignment. Six key lessons for the practice of strategic management in public organizations are provided based on a critical review. Findings point toward the importance of employing a mix of strategies in public organizations, contrary to Miles and Snow??a strong evidence base for the association between prospecting and defending and performance and for relationships between strategy types and processes and structures. However, no empirical evidence is provided for alignment across strategy, structure, process, and the environment. The findings, largely derived from the United Kingdom and United States, suggest that the most successful strategy recipe depends on the ingredients, and thus managers must pay attention to the connections between the outlined contingencies to generate the best results using the adopted strategy."
10.2307_41688039	2012	"Government has come to rely on nonprofit organizations to deliver publicly funded human and cultural services, and it has become a significant donor to the nonprofit sector. When government agencies make grants to nonprofit organizations, administrative cost ratios are often requested, but it is not clear whether or how these ratios influence allocation decisions. Theoretical perspectives alternatively frame the administrative cost ratio as an indicator of price, with negative effects on allocations, or as an indicator of quality, with positive effects on allocations. The authors test these hypotheses using original state-level grants data from the state of Georgia. The results offer inconclusive evidence about whether the price or quality hypothesis explains government's use of administrative cost ratios in decisions regarding the amount of grant allocations. What drives government grant-making decisions remains an open and more complex question that involves a range of other variables that are independent of price and quality. The authors address this question in terms of policy and management implications and a future research agenda."
10.2307_23017472	2011	"City managers play an influential role in brokering intergovernmental service arrangements on behalf of their jurisdiction, yet their motivations for doing so are not well understood. One argument, drawn from theories of bureaucratic entrepreneurship and ambition theory, suggests that cities with managers who are motivated to advance their careers will parlay more interlocal service delivery as means of capturing economic efficiencies. Such strategies serve to build their personal resumes of career achievements. An alternative argument suggests more altruistic motives, including a desire for increased social equity and valuing the common good of the region, compel city managers to pursue interlocal service arrangements. These competing theories are tested on 134 large municipalities, using survey data from the city managers of these jurisdictions, coupled with interlocal revenue and expenditure data for these cities. Results yield greater support for the first theory. However, progressive ambition possesses complex consequences for interlocal service delivery choices. Jurisdictions managed by city managers with career-enhancement ambitions are more likely to sell services to other local governments. Yet, they are significantly less inclined to buy services from other jurisdictions, thereby underscoring entrepreneurship in shaping managers' professional trajectories."
10.2307_42002948	2013	"This article deploys Q methodology in an exploration of the public service orientation in the context of American postsecondary leadership. Thirty-seven senior college administrators were asked to rank a series of statements regarding the administrative values, motives, and attitudes that underlie their own subjective views on administrative conduct. Analysis proceeded in two stages: (1) factor analysis of the administrative perspectives offered by participants and (2) qualitative comparison of these perspectives to extant scholarly portrayals of the public service orientation. Results indicate the existence of two dominant perspectives among participants. Factor 1, Societal Trusteeship, is fundamentally oriented toward the needs of external society and expresses a willingness to leverage institutional resources to improve the human condition. Factor 2, Organizational Stewardship, by contrast, is an internally oriented perspective that emphasizes institutional performance. Importantly, the factors are not dichotomous and suggest considerable cognitive complexity in the professional orientations of college executives."
10.2307_40606403	2010	"How do bureaucrats respond to administrative reform in region to their overall administrative goals? The authors test the bureau-shaping thesis, which holds that bureaucrats' preferences for certain kinds of roles and tasks motivate their support for bureau reform. Drawing on attitudinal and behavioral data from a survey of English local government officials, the findings underscore how bureaucrats with different interests and motivations sort themselves into job types. Their preferences drive support for reform, which, in turn, strengthens the executive structure of English local government. Drawing on the literature on bureaucratic responses to institutional reform, the authors offer a more nuancedportrayal of bureaucratic preferences in line with the bureau-shaping model. A key conclusion: political principals need improved empirical awareness of bureaucratic preferences when undertaking public institutional reforms."
10.2307_40469111	2010	"Despite the wide-ranging use of performance measures within the public sector and the growing use of performance bonuses to recognize performance achievements, the use of formal performance standards adjustment procedures in public performance measurement systems is relatively rare. Burt S. Barnow of Johns Hopkins University and Carolyn J. Heinrich of the University of Wisconsin-Madison set forth the basic arguments in favor of and against the use of formal or informal procedures for adjusting performance expectations. They describe how performance standards adjustments processes are currently (or have been) in use, review the evidence of their effectiveness or problems encountered in their application, and explore the consequences of the inadequacy of performance standards adjustments. The authors offer recommendations for the improvement of public sector performance measurement systems and conclude why this area remains fruitful for future research experimentation"
10.2307_42003034	2013	"Pay for performance (P4P) aims to use reimbursement to incentivize providers to deliver high-quality services. This article examines P4P in five Medicaid nursing home programs: Iowa, Minnesota, Oklahoma, Utah, and Vermont. It describes each program and draws lessons regarding program participation, financing, measurement, administration, and development. Findings highlight the importance of obtaining stakeholder input, both initially and on an ongoing basis. Findings also highlight the need to provide opportunities for acceptance and learning by phasing in programs slowly, beginning with performance measurement, followed by public reporting and, finally, by introducing P4P incentives. Funding P4P using new appropriations, incorporating multiple quality measures and domains, and relying on existing data sources when possible were deemed important; so, too, was allowing programs to evolve over time to account for innovations in quality measurement."
10.2307_42003024	2013	"The patient-centered medical home has been promoted as a way of organizing health service delivery to reduce costs while offering superior health outcomes and coordination of care. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 promotes the patient-centered medical home as a tool to reshape the delivery of health care in the United States. Preliminary findings from demonstration projects indicate positive overall results in terms of access, quality of care, and cost containment, and the model should continue to be reviewed for potential national adoption. However, there is significant variation in individual medical home setups, reimbursement arrangements, and evaluation methods, making the model difficult to assess, compare, and implement. When devehping and evaluating this model, policy makers need to provide continuous support for practice transformation, adopt consistent outcome measures, and have realistic expectations about the timeline for such transformation."
10.2307_23017439	2011	"To what extent do attitudes toward money??specifically, the love of money??moderate the relationship between public service motivation and job satisfaction among public sector professionals in China? The authors collected data from full-time public sector professionals who also were part-time students in a master of public administration program in eastern China. After confirmatory factor analyses, the regression results show that a public servant's love of money moderates the relationship between public service motivation and job satisfaction??that is, individuals with a strong love of money have a significantly stronger relationship between public service motivation and job satisfaction than those without, a finding that supports the ""crowding-in effect."" Alternatively, for high love-of-money civil servants with a ""steel rice bowl"" mentality, high job satisfaction is explained by the best offer (output) for the minimum amount of effort (input), at least within Chinese culture. Such findings are counterintuitive in light of Chinese personal values, equity theory, public servants' institutional background, ethical organizational culture, and corruption."
10.2307_42003136	2013	"As part of the Open Government Initiative, the Barack Obama administration has called for new forms ofcolUboration with stakeholders to increase the innovativeness of public service delivery. Federal managers are employing a new policy instrument called Challenge. gov to implement open innovation concepts invented in the private sector to crowdsource solutions from previously untapped problem solvers and to leverage collective intelligence to tackle complex social and technical public management problems. The authors highlight the work conducted by the Office of Citizen Services and Innovative Technologies at the General Services Administration, the administrator of the Challenge. gov platform. Specifically, this Administrative Profile features the work of Tammi Marcoullier, program manager for Challenge. gov, and Karen Trebon, deputy program manager, and their role as change agents who mediate collaborative practices between policy makers and public agencies as they navigate the political and legal environments of their local agencies. The profile provides insights into the implementation process of crowdsourcing solutions for public management problems, as well as lessons learned for designing open innovation processes in the public sector."
10.2307_41688043	2012	"In this article, the authors focus on members of the U.S. Senior Executive Service who choose collaboration as a management strategy to increase performance and, in particular, their views of the skill set of a successful cottaborator. Based on the current literature on collaboration and networks, these executives might be expected to identify strategic thinking and strategic management as the most important ski?s. Contrary to expectations, the federal executives most frequently mentioned individual attributes and interpersonal skitts as essential for successful collaboration, followed by group process skills, strategic leadership skills, and substantive/technical expertise. The article provides empirical substantiation of the previous literature, with one major difference: the strong reporting of the importance of individual attributes by federal executives (much more than previously reported by other scholars in the field). Strategic leadership skills, strategic management skills, and technical skills matter, but they are not the most important factors behind successful collaborations, according to federal executives."
10.2307_41506801	2012	"A significant goal of public administrators in this era of shrinking public funds has been to find ways to enhance and measure organizational capacity and sustainability with minimal outlays of resources. One attempt to address this goal was the Rural Pilot Program, funded by the Office of Violence Against Women in the U.S. Department of Justice. Based on the evaluation of the program, this article (1) describes how capacity was measured, (2) discusses the validation and utility of a self administered instrument, and (3) examines whether and to what extent organizational capacity is enhanced by an intermediary funding model. Modest positive changes were found in two areas??organizational staffing and information technology??but no changes were found in other areas. The article concludes with recommendations for designing future programs to enhance capacity and sustainability and for public administrators and grant makers in utilizing selfadministered capacity instruments."
10.2307_40984107	2010	"This article examines three roles that local governments play: convening community, providing service, and creating and enforcing regulation. The author uses the concept of polarity management to explore how local governments can strike a balance among these roles, and explores how individual employees and organizations can disrupt that balance by favoring individual roles. Particular focus is placed on local government deficiency in employing the community convener or community engagement role."
10.2307_40469117	2010	"This article aims to find out whether there are behavioral differences between public and private sector managers. Two groups of public managers (managers of social insurance agencies and public school principals) and a group of private managers (two samples) are investigated. Behavioral dimensions are investigated including leadership style (task, relationship, and change orientation), decision-making style (the functions of sensing, intuition, thinking, and feeling), and motivation profile (achievement, affiliation, and power motivation). An analysis of data from 459 managers in four organizations in Sweden reveal significant differences in behavior between public and private managers. However, no significant differences in leadership behavior are discovered among public managers. Possible explanations for such differences and similarities are explored."
10.2307_41061181	2011	"Public sector union membership is thriving compared to the private sector. Moreover, public employee unions play a significant role in policy making at every level of government. Yet research on public sector labor relations is sporadic and uneven, perhaps negligible. Why so? This article surveys the literature on public sector unionism and seeks to answer that question. Its conclusion points to a course of action for renewing interest in this seminal field among public administration, management, and policy scholars."
10.2307_41687988	2012	"This article investigates how executive succession influences the comprehensiveness of structural changes pursued by public organizations. Executive successions are important events for organizations that provide salient opportunities for introducing organizational change, yet little research has analyzed this relationship. The author argues that the less familiarity a new executive has with the organization and the field in which it works, the more likely it is that comprehensive organizational change will take place. Empirical results from quantitative analyses of executive succession events in Danish municipalities from 1984 to 2000 confirm this. Interestingly, the degree to which new practices are legitimized moderates the findings. Inside successors are more likely to conduct comprehensive structural changes afier new practices receive normative and reguhtory legitimacy. The article contributes to the literature on executive succession by highlighting how it is an antecedent to different types of organizational change. Contributions to practitioner and public management research are discussed."
10.2307_23017503	2011	"Efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions are falling far short of what a consensus of scientists argues is necessary to avoid potentially catastrophic increases in the mean global temperature. Increasingly, attention is devoted to understanding the vulnerability and adaptability of social and ecological systems to climate change in particular areas of the world. In the Western United States and other semi-arid regions of the world, possibly the most immediate, direct impacts of climate change involve the availability of water resources. Scientific evidence suggests that the West is likely to become hotter and drier and will experience greater variability in precipitation. These changes will affect tens of millions of residents in Western states, and nearly every sector of the economy, especially agriculture. The logic of common-pool resource theory is applied in this Theory to Practice essay to assess the vulnerability and adaptability to climate change of interstate river compacts and to offer recommendations for coping with climate change. Future areas of research on this critical topic are also outlined. Expert e-commentaries by Richard Kashmanian and Roger Gorke of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, and by Elisabeth Graffy of the U.S. Geological Survey, can be found on the PAR website (go to aspanet. org, click on the link to PAR, and then on the Theory to Practice link)."
10.2307_42003030	2013	"Programming for persons with intellectual and devehpmental disabilities has shifted from state institutional care to community-based services, facilitated by federal government support as well as services delivered by nongovernmental organizations (NGOs). For persons with mental retardation, epilepsy, cerebral palsy, and autism, these programs not only have moved into the health care orbit but also are in search of more holistic ways to maintain persons with their families and in communities. Three major forces have led to this shift: federal financing, particularly under Medicaid; integration of services around clients; and externalized service delivery by NGOs. These are increasingly connected forces, facilitated particularly by the Medicaid Home and Community-Based Services Waiver. They have transformed state-operated systems. Increasingly, states are working with NGO case management and service delivery providers to organize and integrate services to face this continuing challenge."
10.2307_41061158	2011	"School choice has developed into one of the most contentious policy debates in K-12 education. Proponents argue that choice leads to competition among schools, thereby raising school quality for all students, while opponents claim that school choice often results in racial segregation and worsens inequity. The findings of this study, collected from qualitative interviews with school administrators and quantitative analysis of school performance and enrollment data, suggest that a common form of school choice, intradistrict transfer, may not always have the desired impacts on administrators, particularly with regard to intradistrict transfer programs. In addition, the author finds important differences in criteria that shape transfer decisions at different grade levels, and in the factors that shape the decision to transfer away from a school versus those that influence decisions about which school to transfer into."
10.2307_42003002	2013	"What accounts for patterns of city adoption and abandonment of council-manager government? Despite dozens of empirical studies, we lack a systematic understanding of these forces over time because previous work has relied on cross-sectional designs or analysis of change over short periods. This article begins to fill this lacuna by constructing a historical data set spanning 75 years for the 191 largest cities with either mayor-council or council-manager governments in 1930. Event history analysis is applied to isolate adoption and abandonment trends and to provide new evidence revealing the forces that have shaped the trajectory of institutional change in U.S. cities. This analysis reveals that social context factors??inparticular, economic conditions??generate both adoptions and abandonments."
10.2307_40984103	2010	"The authors argue for a scientifically rigorous, contextually valid, practically relevant, and stakeholderinclusive Platinum Standard for evidence-based assessment to improve public administration and third-party governance in the twenty-first century. The Platinum Standard would encompass two contending gold standards. The first gold standard, based on experimental methods, counterfactuals, and average causal effects, is better known and more institutionalized in practice. The second gold standard, based on case studies, comparative methods, triangulation, and causal mechanisms, is less known. The Platinum Standard incorporates both sets of standards and provides a framework for integrating them in practice. It recognizes the wide array of goals and methodologies that are appropriate for assessing the performance of public administration and third-party governance initiatives in a dynamic and globalizing world. The two gold standards currently compete for prominence in the field of evidencebased assessment. By 2020, these gold standards should be part of a more inclusive Platinum Standard."
10.2307_40469116	2010	"Public meetings are often referred to as ""rituals"" to denote a largely symbolic activity with little concrete meaning. This essay explores how public meeting rituals may produce very real impacts on participants and pragmatic outcomes. Whereas tangible outputs of rituals are not always evident, ritual theory suggests that participants can derive latent meaning and significant comfort from their application. Although rituals serve to reify certain norms or control behaviors, they may also reaffirm civic values and encourage group cohesion. A deeper appreciation of public meeting rituals will enable participants and officials to respond more effectively to restructured or nontraditionalformats as well as better deal with the challenges of maintaining participation when rituals lose their meaning."
10.2307_41317430	2011	"Federalist No. 76 describes the process for appointing the top officers of government, which was seen as essential for recruiting the aptitude and tendency toward good administration. This essay examines the process as it has evolved into a series of Herculean tests of political endurance. Having illuminated the founders' basic intent for expeditious and honorable appointments, the analysis provides a troubling indictment of the continuing difficulties recruiting, confirming, and retaining dedicated citizens as guarantors of liberty."
10.2307_40927110	2010	"In July 2005, the Little Rock, Arkansas, school district implemented a new policy to reorganize its management structure in order to create a more efficient bureaucracy. Using Richard Matland's ambiguity-conflict model of policy implementation, the authors examine the implementation of this school reorganization policy. Interviews and surveys were conducted with the superintendent and his executive assistants, school principals, teachers, and staff. In line with Matland's model, the findings suggest that successful implementation is directly related to the policy characteristics of ambiguity and conflict. However, the authors point to the importance of recognizing particular characteristics for different groups of stakeholders within the policy implementation process. Discrepancies among groups of policy actors in the degree of policy ambiguity and policy conflict lead to strikingly different implementation strategies."
10.2307_42003131	2013	"The relationship between politicians and bureaucrats is central to the administration of modern democratic societies, yet it often is neglected in studies of the performance of public organizations. In this article, the authors examine the performance effects of alignment between politicians' and senior managers' perceptions of one of the more pervasive public management reforms over recent decades: performance management. Evidence from a panel of English local governments supports the hypothesis that alignment of views between politicians and senior managers on performance management is associated with better organizational performance. Furthermore, this relationship is strengthened in organizations that display higher levels of role flexibility by managers and greater trust between politicians and managers."
10.2307_42002996	2013	"This article investigates how communications advances affect citizens' ability to participate in coproduction of government services. The authors analyze service requests made to the City of Boston during a one-year period from 2010 to 2011 and, using geospatial analysis and negative binomial regression, investigate possible disparities by race, education, and income in making service requests. The findings reveal little concern that 311 systems (non-emergency call centers) may benefit one racial group over another; however, there is some indication that Hispanics may use these systems less as requests move from call centers to the Internet and smartphones. Consistent with prior research, the findings show that poorer neighborhoods are less likely to take advantage of 311 service, with the notable exception of smartphone utilization. The implications for citizen participation in coproduction and bridging the digital divide are discussed."
10.2307_41061157	2011	"This study examines the effects of human and structurallprocess factors on two types of innovation ?? administrative and technological ?? in a sample of nonprofit organizations. The results indicate that factors that are favorable to administrative innovations differ from those that are conducive to technological innovation. Three variables are significant predictors of administrative innovation: centralization, transformational leadership, and the executive director's job tenure. Transformational leadership contributes significantly to the model of technological innovation. Based on the results of this study, the author provides implications for nonprofit management and future research."
10.2307_40984138	2010	"In 1942, Joseph Harris anticipated that the United States would develop a highly centralized and rationalized welfare state. The forecast was largely mistaken. The United States did develop an expansive national security apparatus that was relatively centralized and rationalized. By contrast, domestic policies were unevenly developed, and often highly decentralized in design. Harris's forecast was unduly influenced by his own observations of trends immediately before World War II. He underestimated the powerful underlying forces that have historically checked centralization in the United States, and regained strength in the postwar period."
10.2307_41433145	2012	"What is the rehtionship between public administration scholarship and the study of developing countries? This article answers this question by presenting the intellectual history of administrative studies of the global South and by examining recent empirical studies of developing country administration. The results suggest that administrative research on the developing world published in leading international publications has become a small-scale, disparate, descriptive, qualitative, and noncomparative subfield dominated by researchers from the global North. This empirical finding provides a platform to end a false North-South administrative dichotomy and advance a vision for public administration as a global social science."
10.2307_40606375	2010	"Local governments phy a key role in emergency management by developing the necessary policies and concrete procedures for responding effectively to community emergencies and their aftermath. However, because emergency measures in most jurisdictions are rarely, if ever, activated, public managers find it difficult to evaluate and assess the quality of existing emergency management programs. Drawing on expert literature to identify 30 elements of a high-quality local emergency management program, key elements are refined and synthesized into a single framework that provides clearcut best practices for emergency program evaluation and performance measurement."
10.2307_40606398	2010	"Is pork produced by feeble budgetary processes? By fixing weak budgetary procedures, can wasteful spending and opportunities for corruption be reduced? This essay looks at three varieties of pork: earmarked, ad hoc, and presidential. What can be done to curb the excesses of each one? By examining the problem of congressional earmarking, this timely article proposes a new process for controlling ""earmarked"" pork by supporting a new (constitutional) presidential lineitem vetolreprogramming ""Ad hoc pork,"" generated by emergency or stimulus bills, is also analyzed. Its downsides can be fixed, according to the essay, by creating a preapproved roadmap for the appropriations process, thereby enhancing the quality of spending oversight. Finally, ""presidential pork"" derives from chief executives rewarding congressional allies and from government agencies allocating program resources so as to engender support from congressional members. This third variety of pork can be controlled if agencies improve their operational transparency plus strengthen their procedures for selecting projects. What happens when you put good people in a bad place, good apples in a bad barrel? Do the apples change the barrel, or does the barrel change the apples?"
10.2307_41061188	2011	"This Administrative Profile charts the remarkable career of Eli Rosenbaum, currently the director of human rights enforcement strategy and policy in the Human Rights and Special Prosecution Section of the Criminal Division in the United States Department of Justice. Until very recently he served as the director of the DOJs Office of Special Investigations (OSI) that was recently merged into Human Rights and Special Prosecutions. He held the OSI Directorship since 1995 and this essay focuses on his accomplishments as the OSI director. The prosecution of Nazi collaborators now is situated in Human Rights and Special Prosecutions. During the OSI directorship, he successfully targeted and prosecuted Nazi collaborators as well as global terrorists. Mission-specific recruitment and team building by Rosenbaum were key factors in his effective leadership at OSI. Managing this unique agency required affective (emotional) skills in addition to cognitive and technical expertise."
10.2307_23017445	2011	This essay reviews the range of literature that uses a biographical approach to probe leadership in public administration. What are the variations in this approach? What have we learned? What should be done in the future? The genre is examined through several books and articles that have studied agency leaders and government departments.
10.2307_41506778	2012	"While there is little empirical evidence to demonstrate which types of environmental management systems (EMSs) are associated with greater environmental improvements, governments worldwide are encouraging facilities to adopt them. This research compares the environmental performance of facilities that adopt ISO 14001-certified EMSs, complete (noncertified) EMSs, and incomplete EMSs across multiple environmental media. The authors analyze these relationships for manufacturing facilities in seven countries using a two-stage model to control for selection bias. Findings indicate that the adoption of all types of EMSs is related to improved environmental performance in an international setting. However, ISO 14001-certified EMSs are associated with environmental improvements to a broader array of environmental media. These findings offer important implications about which types of EMSs have greater promise as voluntary environmental governance tools."
10.2307_23017504	2011	"Carl J. Friedrich's concept of administrative responsibility is examined in his published works from 1935 to 1960. Friedrich's idea of responsibility encompassed not only political and personal responsibility within the hierarchy of bureaucratic organizations, but also functional responsibility based on scientific knowledge and professional standards required by the reality of administrative discretion. Friedrich's notion of responsibility is contrasted with that of Herman Finer, who espoused strict obedience to political and administrative superiors. An examination of the NOMOS series of edited volumes from the later stage of Friedrich's career reflects the consistency of his views on responsibility and on the relationship of responsibility to authority based on reasoned communication. Friedrich's optimism regarding such authority contrasts with Hannah Arendt's view that authority is no longer an operative concept in modern society. Friedrich lays an important foundation for continued interest among public administrative scholars in the concept of administrative responsibility."
10.2307_23355430	2013	"From rising obesity and soaring health care costs to escalating violence and environmental degradation, contemporary society faces many challenges. Are there policies that are naturally effective in changing the behaviors that produce these problems? In this article, the authors examine some of the roots of socially problematic behavior by taking an evolutionary perspective that considers human nature. They review four insights that an evolutionary approach provides into human behavior. Then they discuss how a deeper understanding of the ancestral roots of modern behavior can provide a fresh perspective for policy makers and public administrators while also providing fertile ground for novel research and applications for altering behavior. The central takeaway is that optimal strategies for changing problematic behaviors require harnessing our deep-seated ancestral nature rather than ignoring it or working against it."
10.2307_42003128	2013	"There are currently more than 11 million undocumented immigrants in the United States; the majority of them are of Hispanic origin. This article shows that Hispanic immigrants in the Greater Richmond, Virginia, area rely heavily on free clinics for basic health care services. Free clinics do not receive any public funding and thus face reduced government regulation. As a result, these clinics typically present fewer barriers to undocumented immigrants seeking care. Although free clinics function outside the mainstream of government funding for health care services, the Patient Protection and Affordable Act (ACA) of 2010 is so broad and far-reaching in its scope and potential application that free clinics cannot escape its grasp once the new law is fully implemented. Because the ACA does not provide insurance coverage undocumented immigrants, free clinics will remain primary sources of care and treatment. Consequently, those responsible for implementing the should consider the impact on free clinics."
10.2307_40802233	2010	"Cutback management in the public sector poses unique problems. More than 30 years ago, Charles Levine illustrated these problems by discussing the paradoxes of cutback management in public organizations. Building on Levine's work on cutback management and developments in publicness theory, the author provides a contemporary perspective on cutback management. He asserts that publicness creates paradoxical tensions in different domains such as organizational goals, employee motivation, and organizational performance. These tensions need to be embraced in both theoretical discussions of and practical engagement with cutback management. Instead of a short-term, reductionist approach to cutback management, a holistic and longterm perspective is necessary."
10.2307_40606373	2010	"How do nongovernmental (NGO), international (IO), and military organizations cope with their dependencies and address their perceptual and real differences in order to coordinate their field operations? This question is addressed through the creation of a matrix grouping civilian (NGOs andIOs) and military operations into four general types: peacekeeping; disaster relief, complex humanitarian emergencies/warfare; and stabilization and reconstruction. Second, using Galbraiths information processing approach to organizational design, a range of formal coordination mechanisms that organizations use at the strategic and operational leveL? to help them cope with their dependencies in different field operations is identified. Third, the author underscores how communities of practice are emerging as informal mechanisms of coordination among civilian and military organizations. And finally, a framework of organizational forms that views communities of practice as an alternative to hierarchy and markets is offered. Believing communities of practice hold the most promise for coordination in the human security domain when hierarchies are politically untenable and markets hck accountability, the author concludes with implications for interorganization coordination research and practice."
10.2307_23017437	2011	"Two years after the Homeland Security Act of 2002, Congress passed the Intelligence Reform and Terrorism Prevention Act. This act aspired to replace a sprawling agency-oriented intelligence apparatus with an integrated, networked intelligence community. The act envisioned a director of national intelligence who would accomplish sweeping structural reforms, while at the same time maintaining and improving the efficiency and effectiveness of intelligence operations. This vision has not materialized. The director of national intelligence does not have the power to implement structural reforms. Schisms between the legislature and the executive also hamper reforms."
10.2307_41506785	2012	"Private organizations are increasingly relied on, explicitly and implicitly, to carry out public objectives. But given that profit and public motives are not always aligned, why do private firms behave in publicly responsible ways? Specifically, how do diverse regulative, economic, normative, and cultural influences combine to enable or constrain publicly responsible behavior? This analysis focuses on a specific group of private actors: mortgage lenders. Through semi-structured interviews with private lending agents participating in a public mortgage program, this analysis investigates influences that contribute to publicly responsible behavior. From the interviews, four different publicness dispositions are identified: pecuniary (sensitive to economic and regulative constraints), traditional (sensitive to regulative and isomorphic constraints), altruistic (sensitive to isomorphic and cultural-cognitive influences), and opportunistic (sensitive to multiple influences). Even for organizations (and their actors) operating within the same policy context and the same public program, responses to political authority likely are contingent on varying publicness dispositions."
10.2307_40606397	2010	"Immigration is a sensitive topic on the American political, social, and economic agenda. Globalization as well as the end of the Cold War have meant that people are on the move worldwide as never before. Millions of people from poor countries migrate to richer ones to provide better lives for themselves and their families through legal and illegal channels. Heated debates surround this subject. A dramatic divide persists between proponents, who equate immigration policy with civil rights, and opponents, who cite the burden of illegal immigration on public education and public welfare systems. The author argues that informal institutions involved in migration processes, such as migrant smuggling networks, explain why the current crisis persists. The role of informal institutions is examined by focusing on those who migrate from Kyrgyzstan to the United States seeking low-wage Ubor. The author generalizes how formal and informal institutions interact in the processes of migration and how informal institutions decisively influence immigration-related policies in the United States."
10.2307_41433294	2012	"This article contributes to our understanding of public service motivation and leadership by investigating ways in which organizational leaders can reinforce and even augment the potential effects of public service motivation on employees' attraction to the organizations mission (mission valence). The results contribute to two research questions. First, the findings provide new evidence on the sources of public service motivation. The authors find that transformational leadership is an organizational factor associated with higher public service motivation.Second, the article examines the relationship between transformational leadership and mission valence. The authors find that transformational leadership has an important indirect effect on mission valence through its influence on chrifying organizational goals and fostering public service motivation."
10.2307_40606371	2010	"This essay examines the remarkable careers of Elinor and Vincent Ostrom, exploring polycentricity and human management of common property resources from the ""no-name fields"" of public administration in the late 1950s, through the metropolitan public service industries and public choice approach to democratic administration in the 1960s and 1970s and the institutional analysis of common pool resource management of the 1980s and 1990s. It continues with the diagnosis of the self governing capabilities ofsocio-ecological systems in the 2000s. Many continuities underlie focal shifts in attention. Their work will be rehted to developments in the public administration field along with illustrations of their pioneer example for public administration on research as a collaborative enterprise. The 2009 Nobel Laureate in economics, Elinor Ostrom has been working from an academic background and intellectual tradition that, particularly through her long-term colhboration with Vincent Ostrom, is strongly rooted in the classical and prevailing institutional concerns that may be seen as core to public administration as an academic field of education and research."
10.2307_41687977	2012	"This article provides an overview of the key research findings and core concepts on the topic of organizational networks. The primary focus is on goal-directed ""whole"" service delivery networks, which are prevalent in the public and nonprofit sectors. The findings and ideas presented are especially salient for helping public managers build, maintain, operate, and govern multiorganizational networks in ways that will enhance their effectiveness. Because research and theory on networks extend well beyond the boundanes of public management and administration, the authors draw on thinking from a number of fields, providing a broad understanding of public networks and network functioning. The article is intended to provide usable information on networks for both practitioners and students, as well as to suggest directions for future research for the many public management scholars who now study organizational networks."
10.2307_41061186	2011	"Ethical issues in an influenza pandemic often require local government officials to make unprecedented, complex decisions. Effective planning with significant input from key community stakeholders is required well ahead of time in order to anticipate and mitigate a serious health crisis. The author evaluates the pandemic plans of 28 large cities across the United States using criteria derived from guidelines issued by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The analysis reveals that planning legitimacy can be enhanced by wider transparency and civic engagement, greater opportunities for the inclusion of all stakeholders in decision making, mock community-wide exercises and drills, as well as more public access to comprehensive emergency planning information."
10.2307_23355450	2013	"In this article, the authors address the recent trajectory of local e-government in the United States and compare it with the predictions of early e-government writings, using empirical data from two nationwide surveys of e-government among American local governments. The authors find that local e-government has not produced the results that those writings predicted. Instead, its development has largely been incremental, and local e-government is mainly about delivering information and services online, followed by a few transactions and limited interactivity. Local e-government is also mainly one way, from government to citizens, and there is little or no evidence that it is transformative in any way. This disparity between early predictions and actual results is partly attributable to the incremental nature of American public administration. Other reasons include a lack of attention by early writers to the history of information technology in government and the influence of technological determinism on those writings."
10.2307_42003129	2013	"There are growing pressures for the public sector to be more innovative but considerable disagreement about how to achieve it. This article uses institutional and organizational analysis to compare three major public innovation strategies. The article confronts the myth that the market-driven private sector is more innovative than the public sector by showing that both sectors have a number of drivers of as well as barriers to innovation, some of which are similar, while others are sector specific. The article then systematically analyzes three strategies for innovation: New Public Management, which emphasizes market competition; the neo-Weberian state, which emphasizes organizational entrepreneurship; and collaborative governance, which emphasizes multiactor engagement across organizations in the private, public, and nonprofit sectors. The authors conclude that the choice of strategies for enhancing public innovation is contingent rather than absolute. Some contingencies for each strategy are outlined."
10.2307_41061156	2011	"Research shows that military service is linked with political engagement, such as voting. This connection is strongest for minorities. The authors explore the relationship between military service and volunteering. They conclude that military service helps overcome barriers to volunteering by socializing people with civic responsibility norms, by providing social resources and skills that compensate for the lack of personal resources, and by making veterans aware of opportunities to volunteer as well as asking them to do so. Military service is positively related to volunteering among blacks and Hispanics. Married veterans are more likely to volunteer than nonveterans. Veterans who served during wartime are more likely to volunteer than those who served in peacetime."
10.2307_41506784	2012	"Although social capital has made inroads into the public administration literature, little is known about the gender dimensions of social capital in the context of a disaster. This article examines what kind of benefits, if any, social capital offers for women who are affected by disasters. Studying this question is important because it would help public administrators overcome the unique vulnerabilities of women and strengthen their capabilities in preparing for, responding to, and recovering from disasters. This case study of the city of G??lc?k, Turkey, suggests that social capital offers benefits for women affected by disasters because it is therapeutic in nature and helps women gain empowerment and avoid the stigma of public assistance. The article offers lessons on how public administrators could build social capital in disaster-stricken communities by enabling face-to face interaction, initiating leadership programs, and putting in place institutions and policies that are conducive to collective action."
10.2307_23017467	2011	"A crucial test of whether ""management matters"" is whether changes in the team at the top of an organization make a difference. Focusing on turnover in the collective senior team rather than successions of individual chief executives, this article argues that the impact of leadership succession is contingent upon prior organizational performance. The evidence on English local government shows that changes in the top management team lead to improvements when initial performance is bad, but result in deterioration when initial performance is good. The results support the view that high-performing organizations should attempt to retain members of their senior management team, whereas low performers should seek to replace them."
10.2307_41061175	2011	"What did the U.S. Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations (ACIR) accomplish before it was disbanded in 1996? Were its accomplishments sufficiently valuable to justify reestablishing the organization? This article reviews the commissions origins, history, and accomplishments, and addresses future intergovernmental needs. The ACIR's accomplishments were substantial, but are largely unavailable today. Lessons learned from the ACIR suggest the need to (1) recreate a network of intergovernmental advocates within the legislative and executive branches of the federal government; (2) restart the information flows and high-level federal, state, and local policy dialogues that withered after the ACIR's demise; (3) strengthen boundary-crossing institutions capable of addressing metropolitan and multistateproblems; and (4) develop new opportunities to achieve public policy outcomes that can be attained only by the cumulative efforts of federal, state, and local governments working together??often with private parties as well."
10.2307_23017438	2011	"The backbone of theory of the market-based approach New Public Management is that market orientation improves public service performance. In this article, market orientation is operationalized through the dominant theoretical framework in the business literature: competitor orientation, customer orientation, and interfunctional coordination. Market orientation is examined from the vantage point of three stakeholder groups in English local government: citizens, public servants, and the central government's agent, the Audit Commission. Findings show that market orientation works best for enhancing citizen satisfaction with local services, but its impacts on the performance judgments of local managers or the Audit Commission are negligible. The conclusion discusses important implications of these findings for research, policy, and practice."
10.2307_41688049	2012	"We owe a debt to H. George Frederickson for advancing the schohrly and practitioner dialogue on the role of citizens and the value of citizenship in public administration. Frederickson's contributions began in the late 1960s and early 1970s on citizenship in urban governance, advanced through the development of New Public Administration values, and, more recently, extended through the formulation of ideas regarding the restoration of civism and the promotion of the public as citizen. This article describes the general philosophy of Frederickson's writings and suggests three challenges to this philosophy: (1) the harmful consequences of participation, (2) uncertain constitutional foundations, and (3) equally legitimate conceptions of the public beyond that of the citizen. The authors ask where the scholarly field should go next and suggest fruitful areas for continued theoretical and empirical research categorized by the notions of civis (citizen), civitas (citizenship), and civilitas (the art of government)."
10.2307_40802377	2010	"Martha Derthick is among the most influential scholars of American federalism, administrative behavior, and domestic policy making. Her work over a half century has pioneered the study of policy implementation, administrative and political relationships infederal grant programs, intergovernmental policy making, as well as the evolution of the federal system. This essay reviews her major intellectual contributions to the fields of federalism, public administration, and intergovernmental relations."
10.2307_40984137	2010	"Strategic planning is now a ubiquitous practice in U. S. governments and nonprofit organizations. The practice has become widespread for many reasons, but the chief one is the evidence that strategic planning typically ""works,"" and often works extremely well. Improvements in strategic planning practice are likely to come as it is seen and researched in its full richness as a practice, or set of practices. Several predictions are offered about the future of strategic planning practice and research."
10.2307_42003088	2013	"Initiated by a 1996 Georgia statute, ""radical"" civil service reform quickly swept the United States. This article expUins the wax and eventual wane of state efforts to increase the number of at-will employees at the expense of the popuUtion of fully protected merit system employees. Using an event history approach to expUin this policy diffusion with state-level variables, the author shows that electoral competition and gubernatorial powers are the most significant determinants of this kind of policy diffusion. Whereas previous literature concluded that these reforms ceased spreading because the new programs were failing to create the promised governmental efficiency, this article argues that the institutional conditions for these human resource management policies have been less propitious in recent years. The article signifies an important contribution in that it brings civil service reform back into the scope of policy diffusion literature and identifies political insights into a perpetually important question."
10.2307_40984136	2010	"While it has become ubiquitous in the public sector over the past 25 years, strategic planning will need to play a more critical role in 2020 than it does at present if public managers are to anticipate and manage change adroitly and effectively address new issues that are likely to emerge with increasing rapidity. This article argues that making strategy more meaningful in the future will require transitioningfrom strategic planning to the broader process of strategic management, which involves managing an agency s overall strategic agenda on an ongoing rather than an episodic basis, as well as ensuring that strategies are implemented effectively. Complementing this move to more holistic strategic management, we need to shift the emphasis of the performance movement from a principal concern with measurement to the more encompassing process of performance management over the coming decade in order to focus more proactively on achieving strategic goals and objectives. Finally, agencies will need to link their strategic management and ongoing performance management processes more closely in a reciprocating relationship in which strategizing is aimed largely at defining and strengthening overall performance while performance monitoring helps to inform strategy along the way."
10.2307_42003029	2013	"The responsiveness of the bureaucracy to political control is a long-standing issue for scholars in public administration. The legitimacy of decisions made by the bureaucracy often depends on the technical merits of these decisions, but deliberative decision making involving a broad array of relevant stakeholders offers another potential source of legitimacy for executive agencies. In this article, the author examines efforts to expand the role of the public in decision making at the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). The claim that patients and consumers should have a voice in FDA decisions is important, but it does not tell us how much influence they should have or what decisions require their input. Calls for creating a deliberative process for regulatory decision making are ubiquitous, but they are not likely to succeed unless agencies pay close attention to the challenge of doing this well."
10.2307_41687979	2012	"Government borrowing occurs whenever the government forgoes control over some future flow of resources or benefits in order to acquire resources for current use. Based on this definition, the authors identify several ways that state governments borrow, which include widely recognized forms of debt as well as types of actions that are less transparent. Case studies for Connecticut, Illinois, and New York document the large amounts of future commitments that these states have taken on to cover operating deficits over the last decade. The authors conclude by evaluating the usefulness of current financial statements for assessing the amount of borrowing that states have done to support current services and suggest areas for which additional information is needed."
10.2307_23017497	2011	"There is a growing recognition in the field of e-government that improving the quality and impact of research requires taking into account their complex contexts and drawing on more interdisciplinary and collaborative research. Limited attention so far has been directed toward the conduct of such research, particularly in contract-based research arrangements for developing e-government policy. A four-nation study of public e-procurement policy is used here to make transparent the process of designing and conducting transdisciplinary and interactive research. Further sharing of research designs and accounts is needed to advance theory, policy, and practice, and to develop a history of ideas in the e-government research field."
10.2307_23017469	2011	"Research on and practical attention for the coproduction of public services is increasing. Coproduction is seen as a way to strengthen the quality and legitimacy of public service and reduce costs. Scholarship on coproduction of public services repeatedly ignores the role of the new media. This is surprising since many proponents highlight its potential for changing traditional, government-centric approaches to delivering public services. This article shows that digital communities form an important addition to the government-centric form of public service provision since they foster both an exchange of experiential information and social-emotional support."
10.2307_40984095	2010	"Public budgeting in 2010 is dominated, at all levels of government, by continuing high demands for government services and large budget deficits. Looking ahead to 2020, these struggles are likely to continue. The federal governments 10-year budget outlook is bleak, and its longer-term outlook is even more dismal, driven by growth in health care costs. State and local government budgets will slowly recover from the effects of the recent recession, but will continue to have structural problems. Each of the three major revenue sources ?? income, sales, and property taxes ?? are candidates for reform. On the spending side, health care and education will dominate at the state and local level, while controlling entitlement spending is the main federal challenge. Government also will face continued pressures to finance and maintain infrastructure, appropriately staff the budget function, and make good on promises of more transparent and accountable government."
10.2307_41061176	2011	"This article traces the creation and demise of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations (ACIR) and assesses the prospects for restoring an ACIR like capability to the federal system. Recent initiatives by the National Academy of Public Administration, the Big 7 state and local government official associations, and Congress are summarized, and the facilitating and inhibiting factors associated with intergovernmental institutional development are examined. At least three ingredients in the formula that gave birth to the ACIR in 1959 will need to be present more than 50 years later: (1) support from congressional champions, the president, and public interest groups; (2) visibility and urgency of intergovernmental fiscal and management issues and the need for a permanent intergovernmental presence to address them; and (3) ""homework and spadework"" to enlist potential conservative and liberal interest group and think tank backers."
10.2307_40984096	2010	"Globalization means many things for governments around the world in terms of governance. Questions that are left unexplored in the public administration literature are what changes in the globalization of production mean for governments and their relationships with business and civil society, and what the implications are for public administration. The authors develop a conceptual framework that governments can use to shape their interactions with business in more strategically and mutually beneficial ways. The data are derived from extensive fieldwork in the emerging economies of Southeast Asia. Key challenges to government include the importance of understanding global value chains, value chain-related trade facilitation, investment in logistics, the strengthening of enterprise clusters, effective education, skill development and training, and the governance risks inherent in value chains and networks. The essay concludes with a discussion of five key considerations for public administration in thinking, planning, and acting strategically in relationships with the private sector regarding the globalization of production. These considerations are crucial for creating business environments that strengthen economic development and manage societal concerns in ways that are aligned with public values."
10.2307_41506805	2012	"This article examines whether the payoff from engaging in innovation-generating activities is contingent on an organizations level of customer and learning orientation. The authors suggest that innovative activity is associated with higher public service quality when the level of customer and learning orientation within the focal organization is high. They test this hypothesis by drawing on a novel panel data set covering all public nonspecialist hospital organizations in England. Using dynamic panel data estimation techniques, the authors find strong support for a direct relationship between innovative activity and public service quality and for a moderating role of both customer and learning orientation. These findings call for a contingency perspective on public sector innovation and highlight some of the boundary conditions that need to be in place if public service organizations are to benefit fully from their innovative activities."
10.2307_42003016	2013	"The political rhetoric of the 2012 election suggested that Americans are deeply split over how to deliver and pay for health care. In fact, however, the election may have cleared the way for substantial reforms in health care delivery that will gradually enable the United States to finance effective health care for almost everyone at a sustainable cost. The election affirmed for the first time that almost everyone in the United States will have health insurance coverage and put to rest the idea that voters will tolerate radical change in the complex patchwork of health care financing that has evolved in the United States. The tasks remaining are improving the quality of health care delivered by increasing care coordination and reducing the growth of costs by moving away from fee-for-service delivery toward rewarding quality and value. These challenges are daunting but less ideohgically fraught than health coverage expansion."
10.2307_23355446	2013	"Theories of goal conflict suggest that public organizations confront two possibilities when they face multiple policy goals: (1) organizations attain synergy among lower-order, instrumental goals in order to achieve higher-order objectives, or (2) organizations face a zero-sum trade-off among goals. Implicit in this debate is the proposition that trade-off is more likely when performance toward the attainment of multiple goals is measured with substantively exclusive metrics and under varying environments of task difficulty. This research examines which of these theories appears to explain the implementation and interaction of multiple policy goals in the context of Georgia public high schools. The findings demonstrate the highly contingent nature of goal synergy and trade-off. While goal synergy is possible in the interaction of multiple lower-order goal attainment, more robust gains can be made toward a higher-order objective by focusing on one particular lower-order goal rather than an all-inclusive approach to goal attainment."
10.2307_41433291	2012	"A significant increase in catastrophic wildfires in the interior West of the United States has left public land agencies scrambling to reduce dangerous fuel loads and manage forests according to an ecological understanding of fire and forest health. However, this has not translated into standardized on-the-groundfire and fuel management in public fond agencies. Different on-theground management practices raise questions about the extent to which ecosystems management is being utilized and how well fond agencies are adapting to their new responsibilities. This study employs an institutional analysis and development framework to examine how and why on-the-ground decisions and outcomes differ. Dedsions and outcomes are discussed as a function of the multiple foyers of institutions that guide and constrain the decision processes of line officers who are responsible for developing and executing fire and fuel management projects."
10.2307_40606372	2010	"For nearly half a century, Allen Schicks works have expbred and analyzed central issues in the role of budgets in modern government. In 2009, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Devebprnentpublished Evolutions in Budgetary Practice: Allen Schick and the OECD Senior Budget Officials, a selection of his work, together with new chapters. The book traces developments in budget practices and reforms since the 1980s, rehting them to changes in the role of government, and discusses challenges to contemporary budgeting and how they be met. This collection provides an invaluable insight Schicks thinking about public budgeting: a perspective the past, a practical resource for the present, and a guide to the future."
10.2307_42003000	2013	"This article examines how greater role clarification may be associated with increased work satisfaction and decreased turnover rates in workgroups. These linkages are examined with the use of multivariate analysis of variance and hierarchical regression analysis for data collected during two time periods from multiple sources: personnel records and an organizational survey of 1,699 employees working in 45 geographically distributed offices in a state government agency. Results indicate that offices with a high level of role clarification had significantly higher levels of work satisfaction and lower rates of turnover. Additionally, the effects of role clarification on work satisfaction and turnover behavior were mediated by overall role clarity perceived in these offices. The implications of these findings for effective management of workgroups in government agencies are discussed."
10.2307_41506783	2012	"The growing use of collaborative methods of governance raises concerns about the relative power of participants in such processes and the potential for exclusion or domination of some parties. This research offers a framework for assessing power that considers authority, resources, and discursive legitimacy as sources of power and considers the participants, the process design, and the content of collaborative governance processes as arenas for power use. A case study of a collaborative governance process is presented and analyzed using the power framework. Implications for the design of collaborative governance processes are discussed, including the benefits of a multidimensional definition of power, tools for managing power imbalances among participants, and strategies that participants can use to participate more fully in collaborative governance processes."
10.2307_40469115	2010	"Diversity in the workplace is a central issue for contemporary organizational management. Concomitantly, managing increased diversity deserves greater concern in public, private, and nonprofit organizations. The authors address the effects of diversity and diversity management on employee perceptions of organizational performance in U.S. federal agencies by developing measures of three variables: diversity, diversity management, and perceived organizational performance. Drawing from the Central Personnel Data File and the 2004 Federal Human Capital Survey, their findings suggest that racial diversity relates negatively to organizational performance. When moderated by diversity management policies and practices and team processes, however, racial diversity correlates positively with organizational performance. Gender and age diversity and their interactions with contextual variables produce mixed results, suggesting that gender and age diversity reflect more complicated relationships. This article provides evidence for several benefits derived from effectively managing diversity."
10.2307_40984106	2010	"A governance infrastructure is the collection of technologies and systems, people, policies, practices, and relationships that interact to support governing activities. Information technology, especially communication and computational technologies, continues to augment society's ability to organize, interact, and govern. As we think about the future of governance, this article challenges us to move beyond questions of how to best manage government institutions to how to design smart governance systems with the appropriate incentives and rules to harness and coordinate the enthusiasm and capabilities of those governed. This article anticipates how the interaction of technology and society can be leveraged to mindfully design an interaction-defined, participationbased governance infrastructure to return power to the people while increasing accountability. Supporting examples of such governance approaches already exist and are regularly emerging in distributed organizations, online communities, nonprofits, and governments."
10.2307_23017458	2011	"The key problem in civil-military relations in established polities such as Russia and the United States is not civilian control of the military, but rather how to create a symbiotic relationship of ""shared responsibility"" between senior military officers and civilian leaders. In such a situation, civilian leaders obtain much needed expertise from the military, but ultimately remain in control. The keys to symbiotic civil-military relations are a desire on the part of military officers to work with civilians and civilian respect for military culture. When civilians respect military culture??that is, the military's (1) devotion to clear executive leadership, (2) commitment to corporate identity, (3) drive to increase professional expertise, and (4) dedication to political responsibility??a system of shared responsibility is likely to emerge. This thesis is elaborated by comparing recent civil-military relations in Russia and the United States."
10.2307_41688041	2012	"Networks play an important role in collaboration, but previous work has not examined the different roles of elected and appointed officials in these networks. This article investigates heal economic development policy networks to address (1) the extent to which the structure of relationships reflects the efforts of actors to efficiently collect and process information or to enhance credible commitment; (2) the extent to which differences in incentives and risk aversion lead to differences in politicians' and administrators' networks; and (3) how similanties and differences between heal governments affect their network relationships. Exponential random graph analysis of local governments in the Orlando, Florida, metropolitan area demonstrate that heal government actors forge tightly clustered networks, consistent with the desire to address commitment problems. Although administrators have more expansive networks, there is little evidence of differences in network patterns for administrators and elected officials. Similarity of economic problems and differences in population abo promotes collaboration. These findings are linked to the competitive nature of economic development."
10.2307_23017443	2011	"Is occupational locus or focus important for public service motivation? Does national context influence public service motivation? To answer both questions, the author examines attitudes toward work motives from national samples in 11 North American and Western European nations using multilevel binary logistic regression analysis. The findings demonstrate that the locus of an occupation in government and its focus on a public service activity both are important in shaping preferences for work motives related to public service motivation. Also, the preference for work motives held by citizens is correlated with the type of welfare regime in a nation. Although it is less pronounced, some evidence suggests that the type of welfare regime influences preferences toward work motives among government employees."
10.2307_41317389	2011	"This case study reviews the enactment and implementation of the National Security Personnel System (NSPS) in the U.S. Department of Defense. Proponents of reform seized the opportunity to enact reform in the aftermath of 9/11, basing their arguments on national security concerns. However, the policymaking process did not produce a consensus for reform among key stakeholders in the personnel management policy community. Instead, the NSPS angered and alienated the Office of Personnel Management, the public employee unions, and a number of congressional Democrats. Implementation of the NSPS became problematic as Defense Department officials attempted to move quickly and independently to get the new system online, eventually forcing the department to put the system on hold. In the end, Congress imposed limits on its implementation, advocates for the system disappeared, and a new president supported the repeal of NSPS. This case provides useful insights into the formulation of future strategies for personnel management reform."
10.2307_41506802	2012	"Currently, there is an intense debate on the pressures facing public professionals during policy implementation. Frequently, professionals have difficulty identifying with new policies, resulting in diminished policy performance. The author examines this problem using the concept of ""policy alienation' and develops and tests a scale for its measurement. Policy alienation is associated conceptually with five subdimensions: strategic powerlessness, tacticalpowerlessness, operationalpowerlessness, societal meaninglessness, and client meaninglessness. A policy alienation scale was using a survey of 478 Dutch health care professionals implementing a new financial policy, diagnosis related groups. The resulting 23-item policy alienation scale demonstrated good psychometric qualities. A reliable and valid policy alienation scale can help in understanding and enhancing policy performance."
10.2307_41061178	2011	"The U.S. Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations (ACIR) befitted an era marked by low party polarization, bipartisanship, and cooperative federalism. Although the ACIR's work was valuable, the growth of federal power, rise of party polarization, and the decline of bipartisanship, along with many other political, governmental, and social changes during its 37-year life (1959-96), marginalized the ACIR to the point of political vulnerability. These historic changes make it unlikely that the ACIR will be resurrected in a comparable or partial form."
10.2307_41506804	2012	"In 1984, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the National Association of Schools of Public Affairs and Administration (NASPAA) colhborated to foster a community of scholars focused on research and professional practice in emergency management. The intent was to build a community of researchers and professional practitioners who would support improved performance for an increasingly challenging set of problems confronting emergency managers at all levels of jurisdiction. The financial investment was small, but the NASPAA/FEMA initiative led to the evolution of a community ofschokrs engaged in emergency management research and professional practice. The authors review changes in FEMA since the 1984 workshop and the impact of the NASPAA/FEMA fellows on research and practice in emergency management, phcing this initiative in the wider context of public administration."
10.2307_41317418	2011	"Federalist Nos. 41-43 provide a unified justification for the powers granted to the national government by posing a series of questions about the four classes of responsibilities, such as declaring war. This essay examines the role of polarization in limiting the coordination of powers needed for effective administration and uses ideology estimates for four states to illustrate the difficulties embedded in shared power between national and state governments."
10.2307_42003079	2013	"Transparency is considered a key value for trustworthy governments. However, the effect of transparency on citizens' trust across national cultures is overlooked in current research. This article compares the effect of transparency on trust in government in the Netherlands and South Korea. The effect is investigated in two similar series of three experiments. The authors hypothesize that the effect of transparency differs because the countries have different cultural values regarding power distance and short-and bngterm orientation. Results reveal similar patterns in both countries: transparency has a subdued and sometimes negative effect on trust in government. However, the negative effect in South Korea is much stronger. The difference in the magnitude of transparency's effect suggests that national cultural values phy a significant role in how people perceive and appreciate government transparency."
10.2307_40984102	2010	"The significant reforms being implemented in governance systems around the world reflect a broader transition of society from the modern to a new emerging era. This transition is framed in terms of a shift from a mechanistic to an ecological worldview, stimulated by a number of developments during the twentieth century and the last decade. In contrast to the mechanistic orientation toward reductionism, prediction and control, and competition, an ecological worldview emphasizes the interconnectedness, self organizing capacity, and coevolutionary dynamics of all natural systems. This emergent worldview yields useful insights regarding the purpose, design, process, and relationships characteristic of organizational systems that strive to play an effective role in the future governance of society. The discussion outlines specific organizing principles pertinent to these four areas, identifying some compatible practices that are already being adopted by public and private organizations. The authors address the possibility that the continued transition to ecological governance may not reflect just a long, slow process of incremental change, but also could entail a sudden, systemic reorientation that results in a faster transformation of the extant institutions of public administration."
10.2307_41061190	2011	"John Forester's important research project of developing a critical pragmatist approach to planning and policy analysis now spans two decades. Common themes that give direction and coherence to his project are y first, a new view of public planning as the restructuring of communication between stakeholders with divergent and conflicting interests and large inequalities in power and influence; second, a redefinition of the role of the planner away from a handmaiden of power to a hands-on professional who fosters inclusive, participatory forms of collective action; and, finally, a deliberate concern with the micropolitics of planning that enables participants to broaden their full potential for democratic transformation within the context of strong, enduring inequalities in agenda-setting and decisionmaking power. This review traces the roots of Foresters project in pragmatist thought and in particular themes from Emersonian moral philosophy, adding a notion of ""critical"" to Foresters radical pluralist stance. Forester subscribes to John Deweys argument for democracy, which inherently requires diversity to arrive at warranted truth. For Forester, the core task of a planner is to safeguard the participation of those normally excluded from decision making by institutionalized inequalities."
10.2307_23355484	2013	"Public management scholars are interested in the ways that public managers can improve the performance of their organizations and, by extension, public service outcomes. However, public sector outcomes are increasingly being produced by nonprofit organizations. Nonprofits have encountered increased pressures to improve effectiveness in recent years, both from their funding entities and from the public. A growing body of public management research has shown that managerial networking can pay dividends for organizational effectiveness, yet no studies to date have considered the effects of managerial networking on nonprofit effectiveness. This is the first study to apply the basic elements of Meier and O'Toole's model to the nonprofit sector. Using survey data from a random sample of 314 nonprofit human service organizations in 16 U.S. states, the authors explore the frequency of various networking relationships on organizational and advocacy effectiveness. The findings reveal that political networking increases advocacy effectiveness and community networking increases organizational effectiveness."
10.2307_42003032	2013	"Nursing home quality threatens the well-being of residents. Pay for performance pays organizations for meeting performance targets and is required in Medicare hospitals under the 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, where it is called ""valuebased purchasing. ""It is not yet required of nursing homes. This article asks whether pay for performance could mitigate nursing home quality problems. A total of 159 health care studies were reviewed. ""Effect sizes"" (the percentage improvement or decline in care) were gleaned from 22 selected studies measuring 150 health outcomes ranging from more frequent foot exams to a measure of heart function. The median improvement was a modest 2.9 percent. Nursing home studies were a minority of those reviewed. Yet one large randomized trial proved successful. Pay for performance may be well suited to nursing homes given their routine care, chronic population, and low wage rates. However, design and implementation lessons must be applied to avoid failure."
10.2307_23355464	2013	"Public managers, in addition to implementing sound policies, are expected to manage public participation in the policy process. Civic meetings, in which citizens, elected officials, and public managers discuss proposed policies, can be an effective venue for citizen input, but only if participation is sufficiently high. This article shows that municipal government managers can improve attendance at civic meetings through invitation phone calls. Results from a field experiment in which stakeholders were randomly assigned to receive an invitation phone call for a civic meeting indicate that invitation phone calls can significantly increase meeting attendance. The attendance rate among the 108 stakeholders selected to receive the phone call was higher than among the 169 stakeholders in the control group (8.3 percent versus 4.7 percent). The $20 cost of increasing meeting attendance by one stakeholder is about equal to the cost of increasing turnout in an election by one voter."
10.2307_40606407	2010	"Paul Krugmans work is much celebrated in the fields of international trade and economic geography, recognized with the 2008 Nobel Prize in Economics. Although his work is less prominent in public administration, it has important implications for the study of political fragmentation, collaboration, economic development, and service delivery in metropolitan areas. The authors discuss how Krugman's core?? periphery model adds a critical piece to the regional governance puzzle by explaining the concentration and dispersion of economic activity and the productive advantages of spatial closeness. They summarize the central propositions of Krugman's work to identify its policy inferences for intergovernmental coordination and strategies for successful management of urban growth, as well as its implications for public administration theories of governance, collaboration, and institutional collective action."
10.2307_41061151	2011	"President Barack Obama inherited many challenges as he entered the White House. One of the most important obligations he faced was the constitutional duty to ""take care that the laws be faithfully executed."" Meeting that commitment has been rendered more difficult because Obama seems not to have recognized that the people and organizations of the executive branch are facing a crisis in the capacity to govern. This essay argues that no matter how talented President Obama may be in public policy or on the stumpy he likely will not accomplish his constitutional duty unless he engages that capacity crisis."
10.2307_23017489	2011	"William Howard Taft and Frederick A. Cleveland's vision of executive budgeting clashes with the unique status of the U.S. Congress among the world's legislatures, and its proponents may exaggerate the potential for presidents to act as fiscal guardians. This article advocates more congressional budgeting by reinstituting effective fiscal rules and strengthening the role of the budget committees. These mechanisms would enhance fiscal discipline and aid consolidation."
10.2307_23017500	2011	"This study explores the effects of information technology (IT) in terms of longitudinal changes in organizational structures at the central government level. Interestingly, although IT has increased the ratio of middle managers to subordinates, the number of middle managers has not changed radically and, in some cases, has steadily increased, while the proportion of lower-level employees has decreased. Contrary to the belief in a pyramid structure, the actual form of an agency looks like a rocket. The analysis shows that IT effects on the agency's morphology differ according to the core technology of the agency. However, these effects seem to be constrained by the rigidity of the Korean government in terms of organizational management. This article proposes that agency autonomy in fitting the organizational structure to the real work situation is a necessary condition for seeing the full effects of e-government."
10.2307_41317415	2011	"Federalist No. 23 offers a strong case for national power and the need to grant ""means proportional to the end"" to the new government. This essay argues that the founders could not have anticipated the breadth of today's national agenda and offers a framework for designing a more strategic and effective public enterprise."
10.2307_41506779	2012	"This article is a longitudinal examination of a publicly funded network of health and human services organizations that provide services to mentally ill adults. Data were collected at two points in time from a single network in a large U.S. metropolitan area: when the network was completely reorganized, and again when it had matured, four years hter. Analysis focuses on changes in the patterns of interaction within and across five resource-based subnetworks. The authors argue that the structure of network relationships depends on the type of resources involved??whether tangible or intangible, the stage of network evolution, and whether macro-or micro-level interactions are considered. Implications for theory and for network management, governance, and policy are discussed."
10.2307_42003081	2013	"Collaborative procurement is increasingly on the policy agenda in many countries, yet problems with collaboration occur. This article adopts a rehtional theory perspective to explore the enablers of and barriers to colUboration in purchasing, helping identify success factors. The authors adopted a mixed qualitative/quantitative methodology and interviewed 51 senior staffers in the United Kingdom. They found that collaborative public procurement is hindered by local politics and differing priorities , supplier resistance, reliance on suppliers for data, and a lack of common coding systems. Enabling factors for colhborating with local governments include dealing with local issues and buying from small and medium-sized enterprises. For health care providers, important themes are product innovation and ensuring supply. The authors develop a list of enabling factors and show their effect on colhboration success. This may assist policy makers in identifying areas of guidance and help practitioners prevent problems in collaboration."
10.2307_42003004	2013	"Researchers concerned with organizational change have consistently emphasized the role that the work environment plays in employee acceptance of change. Underexamined in the public management literature, however, is the role that employee values, particularly public service motivation (PSM), may play in employee acceptance of change. Some scholars have noted a positive correlation between employee PSM and organizational change efforts; this article extends this work by attempting to isolate the mechanisms that explain this relationship. Using data from a survey of employees in a city undergoing a reorganization and reduction in workforce, the authors find that only employees who scored high on a single dimension of PSM??self-sacrifice??were more likely than others to support organizational change. Rather than support changes for their potential to improve public service, this finding suggests that employees with higher PSM may simply be less likely to resist changes that might disadvantage them personally."
10.2307_23355475	2013	"Systems approaches present opportunities for public managers and policy makers to view policies and programs in a broader context. This article presents a framework to explain how simulation modeling promotes double-loop learning in management teams by building and exploring collective mental models as well as by enhancing accuracy of the mental models. The authors discuss the types of problems that may benefit from simulation modeling and illustrate how double-loop learning occurs in the process of dynamic hypothesis testing. Using a case from New York State's Division of Disability Determination, the article shows how simulation modeling built confidence in a management team's decision by providing the team with tools to share and examine multiple hypotheses about a declining trend in initial disability recipients in the state between 1998 and 2004."
10.2307_23355434	2013	"This article explores public sector responsiveness to voterled initiatives, specifically, the degree to which public managers attempt to lock in resources before they are constrained by a particular initiative. The authors posit that such behavior, which they term ""beating the clock,"" is a function of the potential impact of the proposed initiative, the degree to which managers can react to the initiative's central issues, and the perceived likelihood of passage. Although scholars have explored different responses to voter-led initiatives, this particular form of strategic behavior has yet to be studied. Using longitudinal data on public debt issuance, hypotheses are tested in the context of a reform proposed through the initiative process in Colorado in 2010. Results show that the number of debt issues increased by roughly 150 percent in advance of a potentially binding election, indicating the ability to preempt formal initiative efforts in certain policy areas."
10.2307_40927104	2010	"Interlocal cooperation through service-sharing agreements has a long history, but its use has increased in popularity during the last 20 years. The decisions of local government units to collaborate through intergovernmental service agreements are best understood as a two-stage process. The first stage, in which communities decide whether to consider interlocal cooperation, involves the nature of the immediate problem faced plus specific demands for performance and efficiency gains that can result from service cooperation. In the second stage, communities confront a question of institutional supply, and hence must overcome inherent bargaining and collective action issues in order to forge interlocal agreements. Heckman probit estimates of such complex relationships using data drawn from a 2003 ICMA survey suggest strong support for this model. The authors conclude by discussing the role of network relationships among local actors for reducing transaction costs and facilitating intergovernmental collaboration."
10.2307_41317429	2011	"Federalist No. 72 is an oft-neglected defense of the president's reeligibility for election. However, the paper goes well beyond this issue to basic models of human nature and motivation. James L. Perry's essay confronts this broad issue as a guide to ""apublic service ethic."" Like other authors in this special issue. Perry reads broadly through the Federalist Papers in search of a deeper definition of public service motivation as a balance between the potency of passion and the limits of reason. Controlling passion was no doubt important to the founders, but it may have drowned out the greater good envisioned in public service commitments to acting on behalf of the people."
10.2307_40469113	2010	"The federal government increasingly relies on nongovernmental organizations for procuring goods and services. This long-term trend presents a significant challenge for administrators because it risks the egalitarian values of democracy by further distancing administrative action from direct, participative, democratic oversight. The authors put forward a theory of representative bureaucracy as a way to reconcile democracy with the reality of the contemporary policy process in which unelected officials are the principal decision makers. The theory is tested in the domain of federal procurement, specifically within the contract award decisions of 60 federal agencies over three years. The authors argue that increased minority representation in leadership positions results in an increased proportion of federal contracts awarded to small minority-owned firms."
10.2307_40927101	2010	"Despite a declining interest in the relationship between leadership, culture, and performance in the scholarly literature, culture change is alive and well among leaders in the public sector as a means to improve performance. This essay reviews the trajectory of culture studies and proposes a modest model of organizational culture that sets aside many of the conceptual and methodological arguments about culture, focusing instead on what leaders actually do to change culture. The model is examined in the context of organizational culture change efforts in the city of Alexandria, Virginia. Several practical and theoretical insights are offered from this pragmatic and leadership-focused approach to culture."
10.2307_23017502	2011	"As government agencies, private sector corporations, the military, and even retail shoppers shift their activities to the Internet, cybersecurity becomes increasingly important. Past presidential administrations recognized that cybersecurity necessitates a comprehensive national policy to protect electronically transmitted and stored information from intrusion. But so far, development of a coherent cybersecurity policy has proven to be a daunting task. A feasible policy framework that systematically arrays the issues and specifies parameters of constraints is lacking, and articulated policies and strategies are narrowly focused and implemented incrementally. The authors argue that recent government documents related to cyberspace form a positive foundation on which to build a comprehensive policy. Despite the incremental nature of cybersecurity progress, these key documents represent a cumulative process on which to build future policy."
10.2307_40984097	2010	"To thrive in 2020, we must conceive of the field of public administration in the broadest possible terms. Phenomena that typically have been treated peripherally in our literature are emerging center stage in recent years, confirming that the ""old"" boundaries of our discipline do not reflect contemporary reality. Afier reviewing three key developments ?? the rise of mixed and nongovernmental institutions in public policy, the increasing importance of market mechanisms, and the assertion of meaningful global regulation ?? an argument is made for a broader reconception of ""publicness"" that goes hand in hand with the embrace of governance in lieu of administration."
10.2307_23017491	2011	"The administration of President Barack Obama, like those of his immediate predecessors, is focused on trying to improve the quality of, and use of, performance data. The federal government has been pursuing performance-informed budget reforms for more than 50 years. Most recently, the Bush administration reforms included the President's Management Agenda and the Program Assessment Rating Tool (PART). The Obama administration reforms include: measuring the effects of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act; reducing or eliminating poorly-performing programs; setting a limited number of short-term, high-priority performance goals; and funding detailed program evaluations. The administration is taking a more agency-driven approach than the Bush administration, but continues to find it challenging to move beyond production of performance data to its use. There should be opportunities to show how performance information can be used for decision making, given the change in the political climate and the needs to reduce spending and the deficit. Historically, there has been little appetite in the Congress for evidence-based decision making. The administration, however, can continue to demonstrate how federal agencies can use performance information to more effectively manage programs."
10.2307_23355431	2013	"The purpose of this Theory to Practice article is to present a systematic, cross-disciplinary, and accessible synthesis of relevant research and to offer explicit evidence-based design guidelines to help practitioners design better participation processes. From the research literature, the authors glean suggestions for iteratively creating, managing, and evaluating public participation activities. The article takes an evidence-based and design science approach, suggesting that effective public participation processes are grounded in analyzing the context closely, identifying the purposes of the participation effort, and iteratively designing and redesigning the process accordingly."
10.2307_23355442	2013	"America is a nation of movers, and this has implications for public and nonprofit managers who rely on donations and volunteers to increase the capacity of nonprofits and to strengthen local communities. This article explores the impact of time and place on philanthropic engagement, focusing on how three aspects of community??sense of belonging, social connections, and regional culture??are related to volunteering and giving to local organizations. The authors find that geographic mobility affects philanthropic engagement. Drawing on a survey of active older Americans, the authors find that three community factors ??sense of community, social networks, and regional cultures?? are related to one or both types of philanthropic behavior. The authors conclude by offering thoughts for future research and practice."
10.2307_41061182	2011	"What is the most effective framework for analyzing complex accountability challenges within governing networks? Recognizing the multiscale and intersector (public, private, and nonprofit) characteristics of these networks, an accountability model is advanced organized around democratic (elected representatives, citizens, and the legal system), market (owners and consumers), as well as administrative (bureaucratic, professional and collaborative) relationships. This concept draws from 2005 events following Hurricane Katrina. Multiple failures of governing networks to plan for and respond to Katrina include a breakdown in democratic, market, and administrative accountability as well as a pervasive confusion over trade-offs between accountability types emerging from crises. This essay offers several useful recommendations for emergency management planners as well as for those who teach and research."
10.2307_40606380	2010	"Public administration values the relationship between theory and practice. Regrettably, theory and practice are regarded more often than not as separate purviews of two different groups??academics and practitioners??resulting in a perceived gap between the two. The doctorate of public administration program at the University of Southern California's Washington Public Affairs Center sought to span both worlds. This article by Beryl A. Radin of American University profiles one of its graduates, Brenda L. Bryant. The author traces her career development, experience in the doctoral program, as well as subsequent professional activities, ultimately highlighting why ""there is nothing more practical than a good theory."""
10.2307_41433141	2012	"This article centers on two interconnected ideas that have garnered increasing attention in public administration: (1) a shift away from centralized institutional authority structures and (2) the concomitant rise of networks in the public sector. While network theories have been viewed as ushering in a new paradigm for understanding governance, they remain rooted in the language and framework of hierarchical bureaucratic systems. The author suggests that embracing an approach not grounded in a centralized institutional perspective may chrify network theories in public administration. Specifically, the author argues that anarchism has much to add to our understanding of networks and illustrates how an anarchist perspective may advance our understanding of networks in three areas??network formation, network stability, and accountability in networks??in which the hierarchical perspective has generated persistent questions."
10.2307_42003086	2013	"Although performance management processes are widely assumed to be beneficial in improving organizational performance in the public sector, there is insufficient empirical evidence to back this cUim. In this article, the authors examine the impact of performance management practices on organizational effectiveness in a particular segment of the public transit industry in the United States. The analysis utilizes original survey data on performance management practices comprising both strategy formulation and performance measurement in 88 small and medium-sized local transit agencies in conjunction with comparative outcome data drawn from the National Transit Database maintained by the Federal Transit Administration. The results provide evidence that more extensive use of performance management practices does in fact contribute to increased effectiveness in this segment of the transit industry."
10.2307_42002944	2013	"In light of recent regulatory changes in federal fuel economy standards for cars and trucks, the consensus forecast is that motor fuel taxes will not be an adequate source of dedicated funding for roadway maintenance and construction. This article accepts the notion that mileage fees are a promising replacement for the fuel tax and considers steps that might be taken to enhance the political acceptability of such a reform. The authors argue that simple, low-tech ways of implementing mileage fees are possible in the near term and should be complemented by a well-developed audit mechanism. Current trends in the automotive and auto insurance industries as well as social media are likely to reduce opposition to more technologically advanced mileage taxes in the long run."
10.2307_40927102	2010	"Few topics in the study of contemporary public organizations better illustrate the burdens??and potential benefits??of sustaining dialogue between practitioners and scholars than the interplay between leadership, organizational culture, and public sector performance. Following two decades of intensive research and advocacy, the last 10years have seen diminished scholarly attention to this subject, while efforts to shape culture remain central to the leadership of public organizations. This essay reflects on the 8 Cs of organizational culture: complicated, control, competence, commitments, credibility, conflict, context, and change."
10.2307_23355436	2013	"This article examines the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission's Management Directive 110, which requires all federal agencies to offer alternative dispute resolution (ADR) to employees with equal employment opportunity (EEO) complaints. Specifically, the article examines federal sector EEO complaint processing before and after the passage of Management Directive 110 and compares the traditional EEO procedure with the use of ADR on several indicators of case processing and case outcomes. Findings are reported in three sections: an overall analysis, an analysis of the informal stage of the process, and an analysis of the formal stage of the process. The article concludes with a discussion and directions for future research."
10.2307_41061180	2011	"Fiscal, administrative, and political tensions among the partners in the federal system have not eased, and perhaps have grown, since the demise of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations in 1996. Yet no governmental organizational capacity exists to address big intergovernmental questions in an ongoing manner through nonpartisan or bipartisan research, data collection, deliberation, and policy formulation."
10.2307_23355481	2013	"The debate on volunteering has paid insufficient attention to the relationship between public spending and volunteering. The importance of this relationship is highlighted by the British government's ""Big Society"" plan, which asserts that an increase in volunteering will compensate for the withdrawal of public agencies and spending. This idea is based on the widely held belief that a high degree of government intervention decreases voluntary activities. This article uses a multidisciplinary approach to improve understanding of how public spending affects the decision to volunteer. A theoretical model conceptualizes this relationship in terms of time donation by employed individuals. The model is tested empirically through an econometric analysis of two survey data sets and interpretative analysis of narratives of local volunteers and public professionals. The results suggest that volunteering is likely to decline when government intervention decreases and that a collaborative approach to sustaining volunteering is needed."
10.2307_40606394	2010	"This article responds to the preceding paper by Stephanie Moulton and Charles Wise, critiquing the dimensions that those authors use as organizing guides in the delivery of public services through public-private institutional configurations, including the evaluation of the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP). In this essay, Eva M. Witesman proposes a modification to the framework and provides suggestions for future research."
10.2307_42002950	2013	"Do specific and difficult job goals have a positive, negative, or negligible effect on higher levels of performance in the form of organizational citizenship behavior (OCB) among government employees? Importantly, how do they influence OCB: directly and/or indirectly through psychological empowerment? This article on a small group of Australian federal government employees draws from the goal-setting and self-determination theories to provide a better understanding of how goal setting affects OCB. Findings show that goal specificity largely influenced OCB indirectly through psychological empowerment. In contrast, goal difficulty raised OCB directly and through the partial mediating effect of psychological empowerment."
10.2307_40984100	2010	"Imagine that citizens and public officials working together over the next decade are able to maximize the democratic potential of todays shared-power, ""no-onein-charge"" world and achieve more sustainable modes of living together on Earth. The article focuses on the development of shared or collaborative approaches to leadership, ideas for developing integrative leadership practices that harness new (and old) communications and information technologies, and means of feeding knowledge back and forth between academia and practitioners in order to produce practical wisdom for solving complex public problems."
10.2307_40802374	2010	"The Catholic Church offers a timely, significant case study of institutional failure. Looking at an in-depth examination of the sex abuse scandal conducted by the John Jay College of Criminal Justice, the author discusses how the church crisis relates to classic public administration and crisis management theory. Given the similarities between the church and the government as public bureaucratic institutions, public administrations have much to learn from the case. Lessons include immediately sharing harsh truths with the public, accepting the stark realities of higher ""public"" expectations, establishing appropriate accountability systems, and fostering trust by building close community relationships. It is equally important to consider that church leaders neither fully considered nor absorbed key lessons from existing administrative theory. Concepts such as inappropriate organizational culture, bureaucracy, technicism, and goal displacement often blind leaders to adopting best practices based on well-established theory."
10.2307_41433144	2012	"Cognitive biases are heuristics that shape individual preferences and decisions in a way that is at odds with means-end rationality. The effects of cognitive biases on governing are underexplored. The authors study how election administrators' cognitive biases shape their preferences for e-voting technology using data from a national survey of local election officiah. The technology acceptance model, which employs a rational, meansend perspective, suggests that the perceived benefits of e-voting machines exphin their popularity. But findings indicate that cognitive biases aho play a role, even after controlling for the perceived benefits and costs of the technology. The findings point to a novel cognitive bias that is ofparticuhr interest to research on e-government: officiah who have a general faith in technology are attracted to more innovative alternatives. The authors ahofind that local election officiah who prefer e-voting machines do so in part because they overvalue the technology they already possess and because they are overly confident in their own judgment."
10.2307_41506810	2012	"Emerging technologies are transforming government agencies and the nature of governance and pose new challenges for public managers. Under the leadership of Steven J. Jost, associate director for communications, the U.S. Census Bureau leveraged emerging technologies during the 2010 Census to complete the project under budget while aUo engaging citizens through the design of viable participatory platforms. The 2010 Census campaign focused on increasing response rates and encouraging citizen participation through innovations in the communication process with citizens and through the infusion of technology. The Census Bureau also effectively managed risks associated with the use of emerging technologies. The authors examine the innovations, the risks, and the effort to manage those risks under Jost's leadership."
10.2307_42002941	2013	"Social media applications are slowly diffusing across all levels of government. The organizational dynamics underlying adoption and use decisions follow a process similar to that for previous waves of new information and communication technologies. The authors suggest that the organizational diffusion of these types of new information and communication technologies, initially aimed at individual use and available through markets, including social media applications, follows a three-stage process. First, agencies experiment informally with social media outside of accepted technology use policies. Next, order evolves from the first chaotic stage as government organizations recognize the need to draft norms and regulations. Finally, organizational institutions evolve that clearly outline appropriate behavior, types of interactions, and new modes of communication that subsequently are formalized in social media strategies and policies. For each of the stages, the authors provide examples and a set of propositions to guide future research."
10.2307_23017434	2011	"What accounts for coordination problems? Many mechanisms of coordination exist in both organizations and networks, yet despite their widespread use, coordination challenges persist. Some believe the challenges are growing even more serious. One answer lies in understanding that coordination is not a free good; it is expensive in terms of time, effort, and attention, or what economists call transaction and administrative costs. An alternative to improving coordination is to reduce its costs, yet there is little guidance in the literature to help managers and researchers calculate coordination costs or make design decisions based on cost reductions. This article explores two cases??the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office's Peer-to-Patent pilot program and the online relief effort in Haiti following the devastating earthquake there in 2010??to illustrate the advantages and constraints of using Web 2.0 technology as a mechanism of coordination and a tool for cost reduction. The lessons learned from these cases may offer practitioners and researchers a way out of our ""silos"" and ""smokestacks."""
10.2307_41061153	2011	"In response to widespread perceptions of problems associated with congressional earmarks, reform efforts began in late 2006 and continued through 2010. This essay summarizes those problems, explains the distribution of earmarks within Congress, and documents their rise and relative fall between 1991 and 2010 using government and public interest group databases. The author explains and critiques earmark reform policies, including congressional rules, initiatives taken by the congressional appropriations committees, and reforms pursued by the George W. Bush and Barack Obama administrations. Congressional rules and committeeinitiated reforms have been most effective, resulting in significant improvements in earmark transparency and accountability. The number and dollar value of earmarks first dropped noticeably in fiscal year 2007 after an earmark moratorium, and then stabilized as reforms were implemented. It is premature to conclude that these levels will continue or that reforms will alter the policy content of earmarks or their distribution among members of Congress."
10.2307_41687986	2012	"The public administration literature has long identified public administrators as key phyers in achieving government reform. Public managers may be motivated to provide employee access to training in governance skilh by several factors, including the need to fulfill the current functions of government, to expand employee responsibilities, or to reform administrative processes and/or programs. The authors examine the impact of public managers on the availability of governance skills training by observing how the desire to achieve reform influences their training decisions in light of other motivating factors. They find that training in citizen input, client rehtions, and performance indicators are significantly and substantively more prevalent in organizations when public managers believe that such training is necessary for reform, and that the more ""democratic"" a skill, the more likely a reform motivation will outweigh other factors."
10.2307_23017473	2011	"While research on the influence of divided government upon legislative outputs is available, relatively little identifies the effects of divided government on legislative control of bureaucratic discretion. Some suggest that inter-branch conflict between the President and Congress leads legislators to seek to retain legislative control over the bureaucracy. As a result, periods of divided government increase statutory control and reduce agency autonomy. Close examination of statutes creating each federal agency between 1946 and 1997 reveal that divided government increases specificity of statutory control. In addition, the particular type of divided government involving split partisan control between the chambers of Congress fosters greater specific statutory control when new government agencies are created."
10.2307_40469112	2010	"Readers are invited to a rendezvous with the meaning of the heart and emotions in public administration. Despite the growing interest in recent years in emotional intelligence within the managerial literature, too little has been written about emotional intelligence within the public sector. This is surprising in light of New Public Management voices that stress flexibility, responsiveness, and a focus on the needs and demands of citizens. The functionality of the heart in a mind-oriented bureaucracy is analyzed, and a model is suggested for exploring the relationship between emotional intelligence, organizational politics, and employees' performance in public agencies. This model is empirically tested in two Israeli municipalities. The results support a moderating role of emotional intelligence in the relationship between organizational politics and emotional commitment, as well as between organizational politics and employees' absenteeism. Other direct mediating effects of political perceptions and skills are noted. Implications for theory development, future empirical studies, as well as practical recommendations are suggested."
10.2307_40802363	2010	"New Orleans' recovery from the damage caused by Hurricane Katrina in 2005 reflects a long, complex, contentious process that still is not complete. In this article, the authors explore the key factors that have supported and hindered recovery so far. Initial conditions within the city, the web of policy demands, as well as recent changes in law and procedures for the region are explored using a new model that may be applicable to other severe disasters. Any recovery, the authors conclude, must be anchored within a local context, but only with necessary administrative backing from the wider region and society. Recovery from disaster offers a rare opportunity to rebuild damaged communities into more resilient ones when energy and investment are immediately channeled into the stricken region and focused in a constructive redesign that acknowledges environmental risk. The recovery process then shifts to mitigation and reduction of risk. Hence, cities will be better prepared for the next extreme event, which will surely come."
10.2307_41506786	2012	"Widespread government contracting for nonprofit social service delivery has resulted in extensive reliance on networks of service providers, which involve complicated accountability dynamics. The literature has tended to emphasize formal aspects of accountability in contract relationships, focusing on the specification of contract terms, performance measures, reporting relationships, and stipulated consequences. Far less attention has been focused on the interorganizational and interpersonal behaviors that reflect informal accountability. This article examines the informal norms, expectations, and behaviors that facilitate collective action and promote informal accountability among nonprofit network actors. The data are based on in-depth interviews with nonprofit senior administrators in four major metropolitan areas. Based on this research, the authors propose a preliminary theory of informal accountability that links (1) the shared norms and facilitative behaviors that foster informal accountability for collective outcomes, (2) the informal system of rewards and sanctions used to promote and reinforce behavioral expectations, and (3) the challenges that may undermine informal accountability."
10.2307_40927108	2010	"Governments often use multiple policy instruments for pursuing policy goals with mutually reinforcing effects. These effects include supplementation and substitution. This article examines both effects by studying two instruments of state budget stabilization policy: general fund balances and budget stabilization funds. States normally maintain budget surpluses in the general fund. In recent decades, many also created separate budget stabilization funds to guard against economic downturns. Empirical results show that substitution occurs between these instruments. In other words, the influence of the first instrument is partially offset by the second. The second instrument also produces some independent impacts??called supplementation??that increase the overall influence of both instruments. Such selfreinforcement decreases over time, suggesting that multiple policy instruments are most effective in the initial stage of application."
10.2307_23355466	2013	"In their 1990 book Impossible Jobs in Public Management, Erwin C. Hargrove and John C. Glidewell argue that public agencies with limited legitimacy, high conflict, low professional authority, and weak agency myths have essentially impossible jobs. Yet some such positions have proven operationally possible. For example, over a 17-year period, the New York City Police Department achieved dramatic reductions in crime. A second impossible job discussed by James Q. Wilson, the urban school superintendent, has also proven possible, with Washington, D.C., having considerable success educating disadvantaged children. However, these successes in urban crime control and public schooling have not been widely copied. Building on the work of Manuel P. Teodoro, the authors use these cases to discuss how the inflexibility of personnel systems and political costs of disruptive reforms combine with the professional norms and progressive ambition of agency leaders to limit the diffusion of innovations in law enforcement and schooling. The article concludes with hypotheses for future testing."
10.2307_41687982	2012	"This article examines the contract design decisions of three federal agencies??the Departments of Health and Human Services, Defense, and Homehnd Security??using five years of data from the Federal Procurement Data System. Three basic contract design elements are charted??type (fixedprice versus cost reimbursement), length, and value??across simple to complex products. All three agencies use short-term, fixed-price contracts for the majority of the purchases that they make. This basic contract design allows agencies to tap the benefits of competition: innovation and cost-efficiency. However, the Departments of Defense and Homeland Security often dramatically increase the length and value of contracts through modifications to initial agreements. This approach forgoes the benefits of competition and may expose the agency to the risk of cost overruns, delivery delays, and diminished product quality."
10.2307_41061183	2011	"How can the Hispanic community in Utah strengthen its active engagement in government? Interviews by the authors with key government and community-based organization representatives offer evidence on (1) who is being engaged in the Hispanic community, (2) what are the barriers to engagement, and (3) which modes of engagement are likely to be effective and under what conditions. Findings indicate that only a small elite in the Hispanic community is currently involved. Even for the elite, engagement is fairly superficial. Historical patterns characterize the Hispanic community limited interaction. The peculiar nature of Utah government also reduces their participation. Pragmatic lessons are drawn to enhance substantially improved partnerships, build comprehensive action plans, and strengthen government commitment to civic inclusion that transcend Utah and apply to diverse minority communities everywhere."
10.2307_40606399	2010	"Some theorists argue that cooperative intergovernmental relations are critical to policy implementation in the United States. This assertion is explored in the context of fair housing enforcement by comparing favorable administrative outcomes in fair housing complaints at the federal, state, and local levels from 1989 to 2004. What conclusions can be drawn from this systematic comparison of intergovernmental enforcement in one policy area over an extended period of time? First, cooperative federalism works well in fair housing enforcement. Second, of special significance, state civil rights agencies resolve complaints in favor of complainants nearly as often as the Department of Housing and Urban Development, and localities sometimes do so even more frequently."
10.2307_23355427	2013	"I have the audacity to believe that peoples everywhere can have three meals a day for their bodies, education and culture for their minds, and dignity, equality, and freedom for their spirits."
10.2307_23355439	2013	"This article explores whether union commitment dampens public sector job satisfaction. By examining the connection between union commitment and two workplace attributes that are presumed to be more prevalent in public sector workplaces??perceptions of higher red tape and greater public service motivation??this article develops three hypotheses exploring the direct and indirect relationships between union commitment and public sector job satisfaction. The findings from a series of structural equation models indicate that union commitment directly increases members' job satisfaction, but it more prominently increases members' job satisfaction indirectly by reducing perceived red tape and enhancing public service motivation."
10.2307_42003134	2013	"There have been many important studies on leadership in the public administration discipline; however, scholarly inquiry still lags behind related disciplines such as psychology and business administration. This article helps fill that gap by analyzing the role that public leaders play in making work more meaningful for their employees, which, in turn, has a positive influence on employee job outcomes. Specifically, the authors analyze the mediating role of work meaningfulness in the relationships between leader-member exchange and organizational commitment, work effort, and work-to-family enrichment. Samples from education, health care, and local government are used. Results show that leadership strongly influences work meaningfulness, which, in turn, influences job outcomes. In addition, the impact and extent of leadership and work meaningfulness are higher in health care and education than in local government. The results emphasize the importance of leadership and meaningful work in the public sector."
10.2307_41433140	2012	"This article examines the application of organizational reputation to public administration. Organizational reputation is defined as a set of beliefs about an organizations capacities, intentions, history, and mission that are embedded in a network of multiple audiences. The authors assert that the way in which organizational reputations are formed and subsequently cultivated is fundamental to understanding the role of public administration in a democracy. A review of the basic assumptions and empirical work on organizational reputation in the public sector identifies a series of stylized facts that extends our understanding of the functioning of public agencies. InparticuUr, the authors examine the relationship between organizational reputation and bureaucratic autonomy."
10.2307_40802370	2010	"New empirical evidence suggests that service performance is shaped by the strategies adopted by public organizations and the networking behavior of public managers. Strategy captures two central behavioral aspects of public organizations: the way in which objectives and actions are selected (processes), and an organization's approach to service delivery (content). Networking is similarly concerned with the behavior of public managers as they interact with others. These twin themes are linked in an integrated study that explores the relationship between strategy, networking, and service performance within a sample of English local governments. The results show that strategy processes based on rational planning offer long-run positive effects on public services, as does a strategic proactive stance."
10.2307_41317387	2011	"While various descriptive and prescriptive citizen participation models suggest ways to improve citizen participation, none has been subjected to large-scale empirical tests. This article develops and tests an organizational theory model that explores the conditions under which citizen involvement as a general strategy can improve administrative decision making. The new model focuses on organizational variables that are more directly subject to managerial influence, such as political support, leadership, red tape, and hierarchical authority, as well as variables related to participant competence and representativeness. Hypotheses are tested with data collected from a national survey of local government managers. The results suggest that public management matters for citizen participation. The conclusion calls for integrating quantitative designs with normative and qualitative citizen participation research."
10.2307_40802236	2010	"Despite the significant volume of studies on public sector performance measurement, a paucity of empirical research describes in detail the systems and processes used at different levels of government to measure and manage performance. This study focuses on the experience of Public Service Agreements in the public sector in England. In particular, the impact of a centralized, performance measurement-driven approach on public service delivery is analyzed using case studies in a health care and a police organization. Despite efforts to introduce a ""golden thread"" to link different levels of the public sector hierarchy, in both cases, there was relatively low consistency in terms of performance indicators, targets, and priorities. Significant implications are evident for the design and role of performance targets and indicators, for the possibility to align frameworks at different levels of the public sector, and for the importance of feedback loops in measurement systems."
10.2307_41317427	2011	Federalist No. 71 and Federalist No. 76 focus on the level of authority in the executive. This essay reviews the recent history of efforts to measure government performance as a way to control executive performance and then proceeds to a discussion of the weakness in past approaches. The author uses the Government Performance and Results Act and the George W. Bush administration's Program Assessment Rating Tool as examples in making the case.
10.2307_40606404	2010	"U.S. federal budget dynamics, as a major attribute of the legisUtive and bureaucratic decision-making processes, increasingly calls into question the scholarly focus on incrementalism. What constitutes a ""small"" change is largely unspecified in previous research that has also been unable to assess incrementalism across multiple leveh of aggregation. Using a unique budgetary database, this article analyzes whether budgetary changes are in fact ""small"" at different levels of aggregation. Surprisingly, a low proportion of changes are small by any logical standard. During most years, more than one-fifth of budgetary changes are greater than 50 percent, and nearly half are more than 10 percent. The level of aggregation is also important for assessing whether political variables influence incrementalism. A salient finding: change in party control reflects greater influence within micro-level budget decisions, while divided government manifests more impact on aggregate-level budget decisions."
10.2307_40984098	2010	"Throughout the era of economic liberalization (1978-2007), a significant amount of governmental power was transferred to technocratguardians who were carefully buffered from elected officials. Democratic processes, it was said, had to be disciplined through such reforms if nations were to thrive in a globalized economy. This way of thinking about reform was already under assault before the financial crisis, and it was even more widely questioned during the crisis, as critics doubted the quality of technocratic decision making. This mode of reform ?? characterized as a ""logic of discipline"" ?? will survive the crisis, but it is unlikely to have the influence that it enjoyed during the era of liberalization."
10.2307_41687984	2012	"This article seeks to put the ""public"" back in public values research by theorizing about the potential of direct citizen participation to assist with identifying and understanding public values. Specifically, the article explores eight participatory design elements and offers nine propositions about how those elements are likely to affect the ability of administrators to identify and understand public values with regard to a policy conflict. The article concludes with a brief discussion about potential directions for future research."
10.2307_41317419	2011	"Federalist No. 44 examines the connective mechanisms underlying a federal system of government. Traditionally called ""intergovernmental relations,"" these systems were intended to facilitate the pursuit of effective implementation of national policies. This essay suggests that the national governments officers should not be impressed by collaboration unless it produces better performance or lower costs. Collaboration is a means to an end, not an absolute requirement."
10.2307_40802230	2010	"A central tenet of The Federalist is that good government depends on good administration. Two hundred and twenty-three years have passed since Publius began writing this extraordinary text. As American democratic institutions have grown larger and more complex than what the founders ever imagined, many of the ideas expressed in The Federalist remain as relevant today as when James Madison, Alexander Hamilton, and John Jay first advanced them in 1787. The author argues that public administration should move toward a constitutional school that would connect the U.S. Constitution with all aspects of American public administration theory and practice. While the author readily acknowledges this new schools apparent defects, its most important contribution recognizes that the American Constitution matters, and indeed should serve as a lodestar for our entire field."
10.2307_42003021	2013	"While the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) of 2010 promises to expand care to millions of Americans, how the bill will determine the meaning of medical necessity??the concept that continues to serve as the key means for regulating the utilization of health care services??remains an open question. Instead of detailing what is and is not considered medically necessary, the ACA charges the U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services with overseeing the processes by which these critical determinations will be made. This article considers a series of ""meta-questions"" regarding the place of medical necessity determinations within the context of the ACA. It does so by examining the policy challenges presented by a bill that attempts to balance government regulation, physician autonomy, and the various market forces driving managed care. The result is an understanding of the inherently political nature of medical necessity determinations under the ACA."
10.2307_42002955	2013	"The last three decades have witnessed the spread of employee empowerment practices throughout the public and private sectors. A growing body of evidence suggests that employee empowerment can be used to improve job satisfaction, organizational commitment, innovativeness, and performance. Nearly all previous empirical studies have analyzed the direct effects of employee empowerment on these outcome variables without taking into account the mediating role of employee attitudes. This article contributes to the growing literature on employee empowerment by proposing and testing a causal model that estimates the direct effect of employee empowerment on performance as well as its indirect effects as mediated by job satisfaction and innovativeness. The empirical analysis relies on three years of data from the Federal Human Capital Survey/Federal Employee Viewpoint Survey and a structural equation modeling approach, including the use of lagged variables. The results support the hypothesized causal structure. Employee empowerment seems to have a direct effect on performance and indirect effects through its influence on job satisfaction and innovativeness, two key causal pathways by which empowerment practices influence behavioral outcomes."
10.2307_42002942	2013	"Among the most contentious questions in public administration is how the performance of public organizations should be evaluated, and nowhere is this issue more salient than in urban public schools. While significant attention has been devoted to studying administrative measures of public organizations, the views of citizens concerning performance have been widely criticized and are not frequently gathered by schools. How these assessments rehte to each other is central to many questions in education policy (e.g., choice, equity) and has important implications for democracy, bureaucratic professionalism, and public performance. This debate can be viewed as focusing on the distinction between convergent validity and discriminant validity. Using data from New York City's public school system with a cross-sectional time-series approach, parent and teacher evaluations are compared to government records of schools' characteristics and performance. The findings suggest that parents and teachers are able to conduct intelligent, meaningful evaluations of school quality."
10.2307_41317421	2011	"Federalist No. 51 can be read as a statement of the national government's dual responsibility to serve the public interest and to preserve liberty. It is built on James Madison's belief in checks and balances as a method for keeping government's parts in their proper places. This essay asks whether this gridbck has gone too far in rendering the constitutional design obsolete. Drawing on previously unpublished fragments of Federalist No. 51 the author argues that Madison fully anticipated these problems, and he offers the unpublished text as a salutary appendix to this iconic defense of liberty."
10.2307_40802228	2010	"The idea of administrative limits ?? in the sense of constraints or bounds on what can be achieved by the activity of administration in general and public administration in particular ?? is important for a proper understanding of twenty-first-century public administration. What are the effective limits of taxable capacity in the modern state, as debt-ridden governments seek to reduce debt levels and budget deficits after the financial crashes and economic recession of the late 2000s? What are the limits of safety and security that can be realistically achieved by administrative structures and procedures in a so-called risk society? What are the limits to the achievement of ambitious social engineering to improve the human lot by conventional organizations and bureaucracies? Such issues are not new. Questions of this kind have long been asked by scholars in the intersecting fields of public administration, policy studies, and political science. Nonetheless, the author argues, they address issues that are of continuing, central importance to government and society in todays world."
10.2307_41317417	2011	"Federalist Nos. 12 and 30-36 describe the benefits of a national fiscal system with independent revenues, arguing that a strong national government cannot exist for long without the means to raise revenues on its own. This essay examines the national fiscal policy process during this period of economic crisis and rising national debt. It provides a detailed assessment of needed reforms in the budget system that would meet the tests imposed by an increasingly uncertain global economy."
10.2307_41506803	2012	"Recent literature in public administration emphasizes enhanced collaboration between elected and administrative officials. The complementarity view is presented as an alternative to the traditional politics-administration dichotomy. At the center of this new perspective lies the concept of shared roles between elected officials and public administrators with respect to policy making and administration. This article expands the emerging literature on role sharing by proposing and testing new variables to understand what enhances the policy-making role of city managers and the administrative role of elected officials. Employing data collected from a nationwide survey of city managers and utilizing structural equation modeling methodology, this research finds that the councils expectations and the city managers role conception significantly influence the city managers involvement in policy making, while the context of policy making, the city managers support, and the councils access to resources affect elected officials' involvement in administration. This article aims to make a cumulative contribution to the literature on role sharing."
10.2307_23017468	2011	"Early studies of organizational red tape emphasized that worker perceptions of organizational rules and procedures are dependent on workers' frames of reference. However, most prior studies do not account sufficiently for how and why these reference points vary across employees, even if they work within the same or similar organizational contexts. While the effects of contemporaneous employee attitudes on perceptions of red tape have been considered in prior analyses, how do perceptions of organizational rules and procedures as red tape relate to workers' prior career trajectories and occupational contexts? Variable norms and expectations across organizations as well as across the public and private sectors may produce different attitudes toward rules and procedures. Of equal import, current occupational characteristics are relatively unexamined in studies of worker perceptions of red tape. Using a survey of state level public managers, this paper examines how employees' perceptions of red tape are mediated by their prior career trajectories and experiences, as well as by their occupational context. Implications for theory and practice are discussed."
10.2307_41317383	2011	"Government efforts to manage the financial crisis and to promote economic recovery have been extensive over the past three years. Hundreds of billions of dollars have been distributed??and much of it now repaid??from the Troubled Asset Relief Program. The Federal Reserve holds more than $2 trillion in mortgage-backed securities, collateralized loans to financial institutions, and other assets and liabilities to maintain liquidity in the financial markets. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act injected more than $ 600 billion into the economy through tax breaks, loans, contracts, grants, and entitlements. Congress also passed the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in 2010. Yet economic recovery remains flat. The author examines the reform effort to date, key points of its primary focus, and the politics of implementing the reform as a factor in eventual economic recovery. One component of the reform, the creation of a Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, holds the greatest potential for changing the way consumers participate in the financial markets, but also has drawn the greatest debate and opposition. While regulatory reform alone will not revive the economy, a newly conceived and broadly participatory Consumer Financial Protection Bureau could simplify and streamline the complex linkages that contribute to the supply of credit."
10.2307_41687980	2012	"This article surveys developments in the municipal debt market for their practical and conceptual implications for public financial managers andschoUrs. It provides an overview of the market crisis of2007??9, focusing on what fiscal stress reveah about debt costs, the incidence of risk, and management methods. The first part focuses on the systemic factors??highly leveraged subprime mortgage instruments and collateralized debt obligations??that affected credit availability, interest costs, and the changing risk profiles of the debt instruments. The second part emphasizes the new institutional architecture of the borrowing environment: the collapse of the market for variable-rated securities, the withdrawal from the market of traditional bond insurers, the diminished avaihbility of credit enhancement instruments from banks, the demise of the standby bond purchase agreement, and the introduction of Build America Bonds. The article presents an agenda for practitioners andschohrs as they face a borrowing future that differs markedly from that of the past."
10.2307_40802235	2010	"What has been the impact of the U.S. Supreme Courts 2009 decision in Ricci v. Destefano on the selection and promotion practices of public employers? Relying solely on circumstantial evidence, the Supreme Court held that the Civil Service Board of New Haven, Connecticut, had engaged in Title VII disparate treatment discrimination by refusing to certify the results of a promotion examination that led, in turn, to a disparate impact on African American firefighters. To limit the discretion of public employers to disregard such selection and promotion exam results, the Ricci majority held that a public employer must ""have a strong basis in evidence to believe it will be subject to disparate-impact liability if it fails to the take the race-conscious discriminatory action."" This article argues that the decision effectively prohibits public employers from rejecting the results of selection and promotion instruments, even though there is evidence that screening instruments inequitably affect protected groups. It also forces public employers to become more careful in developing selection and promotion examinations or face the possibility of costly Title VII litigation."
10.2307_42003084	2013	"Using data on more than 300 census blocks from across New Orleans, Louisiana, this article investigates two steps in thephcement of temporary housing after Hurricane Katrina. First, the authors seek to understand the factors that determined whether census bhcks were selected for Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) trailers. Then, in light of the widespread resistance to the trailers, they focus on variables that influenced whether trailers were successfully pUced on those sites. Despite past research arguing that race, collective action potential, and political factors are the primary determinants of facility pfocement and the success or failure of the attempt, these data show that technocratic criteria dominated. Interestingly, although census blocks in less vulnerable areas were more likely to be selected as locations for FEMA trailer parks than ones in more vulnerabk areas, it was precisely the former areas where siting success was less likely. Flood-resistant areas that decision makers chose for housing were less willing to accept such projects than more flood-prone ones."
10.2307_41506807	2012	"This article examines how public service motivation (PSM) rehtes to public managers' attitudes toward citizen participation. Perry and Vandenabeele suggest that PSM effects are moderated and/or mediated by self-regulation and by the salience of an activity to self-identity. Using data from Phase IV of the National Administrative Studies Project, latent model results suggest a direct, positive relationship between PSM and citizen participation evaluation. The relationship is not mediated by value congruence but rather is moderated by the perceived importance of the organizations citizen participation efforts. The moderating effect has three interpretations: (1) PSM has a stronger relationship to evaluation as citizen participation becomes more important in the agency; (2) at low and medium PSM levels, the greater the importance of citizen participation, the lower its evaluation; or (3) at high PSM levels, the greater the importance of citizen participation, the higher its evaluation. This suggests that PSM is more germane for activities such as citizen participation, invoking relevant values as perceived organizational commitment increases."
10.2307_23355447	2013	"This article responds to recent calls for experimental research into the relationship between public service motivation (PSM) and job performance. The author conducted a field experiment with a sample of nurses at a public hospital in Italy to investigate the interplay between job performance, PSM, and two conditions: exposure to contact with beneficiaries and self-persuasion interventions. Both treatments had positive effects on participants' persistence, output, productivity, and vigilance. Baseline PSM strengthened these positive effects. Moreover, both conditions caused an increase in PSM that partially mediated the positive effects of beneficiary contact and self-persuasion on job performance. The implications of the experimental findings for theory and practice are discussed."
10.2307_40606374	2010	"How diversified are small town revenues? Revenue diversification is analyzed among towns governed by town meetings. Using previously developed diversification measuresy the findings confirm that these localities draw from less diverse revenue streams than other state and local governments. The reasons for these variations include differences in home rule status as well as tax and expenditure limitations imposed by states. The authors suggest that revenue allocation in these jurisdictions is substantively different from other forms of local government because these communities rely much less on sales taxation than states and municipalities. Their essay proposes possible options for improvement, along with other criteria by which small towns can assess their revenue diversification."
10.2307_40469118	2010	"When President Barack Obama nominated Ben Bernanke for a second term as chair of the Federal Reserve Board in August 2009, he emphasized Bernankes ""bold action and outside-the-box thinking"" in preventing the recent financial collapse from turning into another Great Depression. While many saw this renomination as providing monetary policy stability and necessary institutional continuity during the crisis, Bernankes ""bold action"" has generated robust criticism, mainly because Bernanke initiated fundamental reforms of traditional Fed practices. How has Bernankes leadership style at the Fed evolved as the financial crisis of 2008-2009 has unfolded? Did his prior academic experience influence his decisions? What are the long-term implications of Bemankes innovative strategies for the Federal Reserve as an independent, powerful, policy making institution, traditionally one that possesses tremendous financial and political autonomy?"
10.2307_23355476	2013	"This article develops a generic framework to explain the environment for public??private partnership (PPP) development in transitional economies. The framework stands on a tripod that includes the market, the operating environment, and the government, each containing several factors that support aspects of PPPs. The authors apply the framework to analyze the results of a multicountry survey in an effort to identify key factors that facilitate PPP development in transition countries. The identified factors are market potential, institutional guarantee, government credibility, financial accessibility, government capacity, consolidated management, and corruption control. The framework and identified factors may serve as effective tools to diagnose and monitor PPP development in a broader array of countries. The framework is applied in analyzing data from four transitional economies and several advanced economies. The efficacy of the framework is further justified by its explanatory power of PPPs' practicality and is largely confirmed by results from a sensitivity test."
10.2307_42002952	2013	"Exposure to the extreme stress of warfare may affect soldiers' perceptions of others and society. Using panel data from two companies on a tour of duty to Afghanistan in 2011, this article analyzes how different dimensions of soldiers' public service motivation are influenced by deployment to war. As expected, soldiers' compassion decreased and commitment to the public interest increased, while self-sacrifice did not change systematically. Deployment to war was expected to affect inexperienced soldiers more than their experienced colleagues, but this hypothesis was only partially satisfied. The key contribution of the article is the use of panel data and the examination of motivational changes. Moreover, studying soldiers' public service motivation enables us to connect public administration and military sociology and thereby to establish a better understanding of motivation in extreme settings."
10.2307_40469114	2010	"This article examines the funding of two key components of state government total compensation: pensions and other postemployment benefits (OPEB), the latter consisting primarily of retiree health care. A brief overview of the economic, political, and legal environments of state pensions and OPEB is followed by an analysis of the unfunded liabilities for these respective benefits. Regression results suggest the importance of state management capacity, per capita income, and public employee density in understanding differences in the states' pension and OPEB funding performance. Additionally, employers' level of pension contributions, legislative professionalism, and fiscal constraint are significantly related to pension funding, while political ideology and levels of state pension funding are significantly related to OPEB funding. The article concludes by discussing the tensions that states face in attempting to balance the fiscal imperative of funding retiree benefits liabilities with the human capital challenge of attracting and retaining a professional workforce. Failure on either could be costly to state government."
10.2307_42003023	2013	"Administrative burden is an individual's experience of policy implementation as onerous. Such burdens may be created because of a desire to limit payments to ineligible chimants, but they also serve to limit take-up of benefits by eligible claimants. For citizens, this burden may occur through learning about a program; complying with rules and discretionary bureaucratic behavior to participate; and the psychological costs of participating in an unpopular program. Using a mixed-method approach, the authors exphin process changes that reduced individual burden and demonstrate how this resulted in increased take-up in Medicaid in the state of Wisconsin. The findings inform the planned expansion of Medicaid under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. A key design principle for Medicaid and other means-tested programs is that it is possible to increase program take-up while maintaining program integrity by shifting administrative burdens from the citizen to the state."
10.2307_41433143	2012	"Achieving public participation often is a goal for public budgeting entities, but it is difficult to accomplish in practice. This study examines three questions: How do public representatives interpret and define their democratic responsibilities? What are their insights regarding opportunities for and barriers to participatory budgeting processesi To what extent are these goah met? To address these questions, this research employs a qualitative research strategy with a case study design of a public university budgeting committee. The findings reveal that respondents (1) define their mission structurally and procedurally, (2) identify a need for ethical behavior and leadership, and (3) recognize that democratic values such as participation and efficiency are in tension with one another. Being open and inclusive comes in the form of the citizen??public administrator dialectic and requires intellectual, ethical, and practical engagement with competing democratic values."
10.2307_42003078	2013	"Three contemporary leadership challenges face local governments today. The first encourages department heads to more actively work the intersection between political and administrative arenas. The second promotes cottaborative work, synchronizing city and county boundaries with problems that have no jurisdicnonal homes. The third argues that citizen engagement is no longer optional??it is imperative??and that connecting engagement initiatives to traditional political values and governing processes is an important mark of successful community building. These three leadership challenges stemfom a widening gap between the arenas of politics and administration??that is, between what is politically acceptable in public policy making and what is administratively sustainable. The gap is fueled by conflicting trends experienced locally and common internationally. Failure to bndge this gap between political acceptability and administrative sustainability results in decreasing legitimacy for governing institutions and increasing challenges."
10.2307_41433305	2012	"This article establishes a framework for exphining the ways in which citizens, as clients of public services, attempt to deal with situations of combined market and government failures. Under certain conditions, citizens are driven to create self-production mechanisms that often are extralegal or illegal. When faced with such social initiatives, politicians often support them, either passively or actively, by institutionalizing the new mechanisms.The article explains the evolution of the self-provision model and its implications. The analysis includes a theoretical framework and a practical intervention scheme."
10.2307_40984134	2010	"Scholars of an earlier era predicted a more secure role for the administrative state in American political culture. This vision overlooked a historical irony that governs the relationship between politics and administration. For American society, the administrative state is a suspect handmaiden. Citizens have looked to public administration to enable extraordinary growth while simultaneously distrusting it. In recent decades, these contradictory trends have grown. The growth of the state, increased polarization, and political attacks on government have produced a set of values, perspectives, and capabilities that often do not mesh with one another or with many governmental activities. As a result, we find outdated mechanisms of accountability, politicization, and a broader illegitimacy that threatens the capacity of the state to act effectively."
10.2307_40802373	2010	"The archives of three bureaus of integrity are analyzed in order to study the reasons for reporting integrity and law violations within public organizations. Peer reporting accounts for only a small percentage of cases; most investigations originate from routine and continuous institutional controls. What are the reasons peers choose to report or not report? A sense of justice is most important, followed by self-protection and protection of the wrongdoer. The most important reason against coming forward is the reporter's fear of negative consequences. One surprising rationale for not reporting is that an individual feels responsible for the wrongdoer's punishment. Six propositions are elicited from this research as well as specific pragmatic recommendations for management procedures to improve reporting of integrity and/or law violations."
10.2307_23017466	2011	"What intellectual influence, if any, have British public administration scholars had on their American counterparts since World War II? In this article, the author briefly reviews the major areas of theory and research in the British study of publication administration, further identifying important contributions by British scholars in the areas of modernist-empiricism, the new public management, regulation, policy networks and governance, and interpretive theory. Although there is a discernible American influence on British public administration, there is little British impact on U.S. public administration; nowadays it is a one-way street. Increasingly, British scholars are involved in a growing community of European public administration scholars with whom they share active, two-way connections. Recent European developments suggest that American and European public administration academics are growing further apart. Due to the immense strength of modernist-empiricism throughout American universities, plus the interpretive turn to a European epistemology of ""blurred genres,"" these twin, traditionally self-referential, communities seem to be parting company with an attendant danger that future intellectual engagement may be a dead end."
10.2307_40606396	2010	"Western armies have undergone substantial organizational-cultural transformations since the end of the Cold War. Two main themes have been suggested to describe these transformations: postmodernity and post-Fordism. This article analyzes these profound shifts. The author portrays the new Western army as a ""market army,"" distancing itself from the ""citizen army,"" and envisions a continuum between these extreme types. The market army emuhtes market practices in order to adapt to modern strategic, economic, political, and cultural constraints. What typifies the market army is the subjection of military doctrine to the market, a post-Fordist structure, a network-centric hierarchy, market values borrowed by the military profession, the convergence of military and civilian occupations, the commodification of military service, and new contractual forms of bargaining between soldiers and the military. Israel serves as a critical case with which to develop the theory of the market army."
10.2307_41061184	2011	"Following failed auctions for sewer debt in April 2008, major bond rating companies downgraded Jefferson County, Alabama's bond rating to D (default) triggering massive mandatory payments by the county to its creditors. At the time of writing, the county teeters on the brink of actual default and bankruptcy, unable to pay service on its $3.3 billion sewer debt portfolio. If the county defaults, it will be the largest municipal bankruptcy in United States history, eclipsing Orange County, California's 1994 default. The intriguingly complex tale of the Jefferson County debt crisis is recounted here by identifying and examining failures of transparency and accountability by local bureaucratic and political actors, private financial institutions, as well as the larger regulatory framework governing public finance. Enhanced regulation of local government and the financial sector plus greater local government capacity to close accountability gaps and thus prevent future crises of similar scale in this or other jurisdictions are recommended."
10.2307_40984109	2010	"Local governments in the twenty-first century face challenges regarding service delivery, finance, the workforce, and citizen engagement. While privatization was a major innovation in the last decades of the twentieth century, lack of costs savings and the loss of public values in market provision are prompting reversals in privatization, increases in regulation, and new approaches to government enterprise. The twenty-first century must focus on rebuilding the capacity of local governments to finance critical infrastructure, attract and retain a skilled labor force, and engage citizen in designing innovative solutions to address public problems. Innovations in public service delivery will move beyond public private partnerships to models that more effectively balance accountability, equity, and efficiency concerns."
10.2307_42002998	2013	"Public managers and researchers devote much attention to the benefits of coproduction, or the mixing of the productive efforts of public employees and citizens in public service design and delivery. One concern, however, is the distributional consequences of coproduction. This article proposes that disadvantaged citizens may be constrained by a lack of knowledge or other resources necessary to contribute to and benefit from the coproduction process. From this assumption, the authors develop the theoretical argument that if coproduction programs were designed to lift constraints on disadvantaged citizens, they might increase both efficiency and equity. This claim is tested using afield experiment on educational services. A coproduction program providing immigrant parents with knowledge and materials useful to their children's early educational development had a substantial positive impact on the educational outcomes of disadvantaged children, thereby diminishing inequity. Economically, the program was more efficient than later compensation of low-performing children."
10.2307_41687978	2012	"As a result of devolution, state governments have taken on greater responsibility for financing and providing public services. Increasingly, states have adopted state-level tax and expenditure limitations (TELs) to manage the growth and size of state budgets. The adoption of TELs is supported by chims that they have a positive effect on state economies, although such claims hck empirical evidence and have been contested by several schohrs. Despite the ongoing debate about validating the actual economic effects of state-level TELs, there is a lack of empirical assessments of their effects. The empirical results of this article indicate that the presence of state-level TELs has a negative effect on the level of employment but no effect on the states personal income per capita. The presence of state-level TELs has no effect on either the growth of personal income per capita or the growth of employment."
10.2307_41317420	2011	"Federalist No. 51 is another of the most recognizable and important of the Federalist Papers, famously arguing that one first must enable government to control the governed, and then oblige it to control itself. The authors suggest that part of this obligation involves effective collaboration within a system of separate powers. They then ask how this ""collaboration imperative"" can be exercised in today's contentious political environment."
10.2307_40469110	2010	"What are the attitudes of public managers who have had full-time private sector work experience? Public managers with private sector work experience report different perspectives when compared to their counterparts who have spent their entire careers in the public sector. Though private sector work experience negatively correlates with job satisfaction, it only does so for the ""new switcher, ""whose last job was in the private sector. As careers advance, the negative impact seems to wane, leaving a public sector workforce that, in part as a result of their private sector work experience, are relatively more intrinsically motivated and involved in their jobs. We conclude with discussion of implications for human resources management."
10.2307_41433301	2012	"Predispositions and orientation toward cooperation or competition with other jurisdictions can play a critical role in implementing regional collaboration.By examining collaboration at the micro level, this article investigates how individual factors, including perceptions of cooperation and competition, as well as institutional and environmental factors, are reUtedto regional collaboration. In particular, the authors assert that competitive motivation may support the emergence of regional governance mechanisms. This article explores the relationships between competitive! cooperative motivations and interlocal collaboration networks based on a network survey conducted in the Orlando, Florida, metropolitan area. The authors apply a quadratic assignment procedure regression analysis to examine how dyadic conceptual ties of cooperation and competition, along with the effect of community characteristics, affect policy network structures for economic devebpment.By comparing estimated coefficients with sampling distributions of coefficients from all of the permuted data sets, the regression results indicate the influences of perceived competition/cooperation on the network exchange."
10.2307_40984104	2010	"This article evaluates the potential of the Edward M. Kennedy Serve America Act of 2009 to raise the level of volunteering and national service in the United States, particularly among young people, and its implications for public administration in 2020. The act would increase service-learning opportunities and national service placements substantially. Research suggests that participation in these activities is associated with increased volunteering, civic and political engagement, and interest in a career in government or nonprofit service, especially among African Americans and Hispanics. These results hold considerable promise for the practice of public administration in 2020. The authors find that their effectuation depends not only on increasing federal service programs significantly and continuing growth in funding, but also on addressing important challenges, such as the ability of public policy to increase volunteering, volunteer management capacity to support these efforts, the role of volunteering in addressing pressing social issues, and reaching disadvantaged populations."
10.2307_41433297	2012	"Collaborative partnerships can be an effective strategy for crime prevention, especially in disorganized communities. Using ordinary least squares regression with 414 American cities, this article finds that police departments with many collaborative partnerships are able to promote informal social control within their communities and capitalize on the resources available to them with the help of other groups. This contention is supported by the effects of collaborative partnerships on crime rates in disorganized communities in comparison to well-organized communities.Thus, collaborative partnerships of public organizations with other groups may insulate disorganized communities from the effects of community disorganization on level of crime."
10.2307_40802368	2010	"Despite growing evidence about prosocial motivations and their effects on employee behavior, how can new public service motivation research translate into more effective management practices ?? which, so far, regrettably remain underdeveloped? Increasingly, public service motivation studies have moved from understanding what motivates public servants to exploring how public service motives influence performance. Similarly, greater attention is now paid to the practices of transformational leadership. Drawing on concepts from transformational leadership, this essay explores how managers can harness the positive aspects of public service motivation to enhance employee and organizational performance and outlines strategies that can help managers incorporate public service motivation values across management systems."
10.2307_41317424	2011	"Federalist No. 70 is widely viewed as a sweeping description and defense of the need for energy in the executive. This essay begins this detailed examination of Federalist No. 70 by comparing Alexander Hamilton's ideals with James Madison's more cautionary exposition on separated powers. According to the author, Hamilton's notion of a public service driven by honor eventually was undermined by partisanship and congressional prerogatives expressed in the rise of a ""businesslike"" path away from corruption and waste. The essay concludes with a brief description of a ""counterfactual"" revision to Federalist No. 70 containing a conception of good public service with a capacity to resist the incursions of expanding democratization and political parties."
10.2307_41687981	2012	"Nations in the Arab world are largely unitary states, yet Iraq has embarked on a seemingly ambitious agenda of decentralization and devolution mixed with federalism. While local elections have been dehyedat least until 2012, and indeed may never take place, Iraq's constitutional commitment to decentralize and subsequent statutory enactments appear to be turning provincial governments into significant actors in Iraqi governance. Progress has taken place at a slower, more deliberate pace than both proponents and opponents feared in 2002??6. This article discusses the current state of implementation of this process as a cornerstone of Iraqi democratic devebpment, from the perspective of a former U.S. Department of State senior governance specialist who served on an embedded Provincial Reconstruction Team in 2009??10. These reconstruction teams were dismantled in the year leading up to September 6, 2011, as the American relationship with Iraq was ""normalized,"" though they likely will continue in Afghanistan into 2013."
